
--- Page 1 ---
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 285
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.0 System Architecture
8.1 UCIe Manageability
8.1.1 Overview
UCIe Manageability is optional and defines mech anisms to manage a UCIe-based SiP that is 
independent of UCIe mainband protocols. This acce lerates the construction of a UCIe-based SiP by 
allowing a common manageability architecture and hardware/software infrastructure to be leveraged 
across implementations.
Examples of functions that may be performed using UCIe Manageability include the following:
• Discovery of chiplets that make up an SiP and their configuration,• Initialization of chiplet structures, and pa rameters (i.e., serial EEPROM replacement),
• Firmware download,
• Power and thermal management,• Error reporting,
• Performance monitoring and telemetry,
• Retrieval of log and crash dump information,• Initiation and reporting of self-test status,
• Test and debug, and
• Various aspects of chiplet security.
UCIe manageability has been architected with the following goals:
• Support for management using mainband or sideband is mainband protocol agnostic allowing it to 
be used with chiplets that implement existing mainband protocols, mainband protocols that may 
be standardized in the future, and vendor-specific mainband protocols.
• The required core capabilities of UCIe manageab ility may be realized in hardware allowing simple 
chiplets to remain simple while providing advanced manageability capabilities (i.e., those that 
may require firmware implementation) to be implemented in chiplets that require these 
capabilities.
• UCIe Chiplets that support manageability may be  used to realize products for a variety of 
markets. These markets may have vastly different  manageability and securi ty requirements. UCIe 
manageability defines a menu of optional manageme nt and security capabilities that build on top 
of the required core capabilities.
• UCIe manageability is intended to foster an open chiplet ecosystem where SiPs may be 
constructed from chiplets produced by different vendors. This means that common features and 
capabilities that are generally useful across ma rket segments are standardized. Mechanisms are 
supplied for vendor-specific extensions.
--- Page 2 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 286
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Manageability capabilities are discoverable and configurable, allowing a common firmware base to 
be rapidly used across SiPs.
• UCIe manageability builds on top of  applicable industry standards.
8.1.2 Theory of Operation
A UCIe-based System-in-Package (SiP) that suppor ts manageability contains one or more UCIe 
Chiplets that support UCIe manageability. Chiplets in the SiP that support UCIe manageability form a 
Management Domain. The SiP may also contain chiplets that do not support UCIe manageability and these chiplets are outside the Management Domain. If the Management Domain contains more than 
one chiplet, then the chiplets are interconnected through Management Ports using chiplet-to-chiplet 
management links to form a Management Networ k. The Management Network is fully connected 
meaning that there is a path from any chiplet in the Management Domain to any other chiplet in the 
Management Domain.
A UCIe Chiplet that supports manageability co ntains a Management Fabric and one or more 
Management Entities. A Management Entity is a Management Element, a Management Port, or a 
Management Bridge. An example UCIe chiple t that supports manageability is shown in Figure 8-1  and 
an example SiP that supports manageability cons isting of four UCIe chiplets is shown in Figure 8-2 .
Figure 8-1. Example UCIe Chiple t that Supports Manageability
Chiplet
Management
PortManagement
PortManagement 
Fabric
Management
PortManagement
BridgeManagement
Element
Management
ElementManagement
Element
Management
Port
--- Page 3 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 287
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 The UCIe Management Transport is an end-to-e nd media-independent protocol for management 
communication on the Management Network. This includes between Management Entities within a 
chiplet as well as between Management Enti ties in different chiplets. As shown in Figure 8-3 , the 
Management Protocols above the UCIe Management  Transport are used to implement management 
services. An example of a Management Protoc ol is the UCIe Memory Access Protocol.Figure 8-2. Example SiP that Supports Manageability
Chiplet
Management 
Fabric
Management
PortManagement
BridgeManagement
DirectorManagement
Element
Chiplet
Management 
FabricChiplet
Management 
FabricChiplet
Management 
Fabric
Management
ElementManagement
Element
Management
Element
Management
Element
Management
Element
Management
ElementManagement
ElementManagement
ElementManagement
Port
Management
PortManagement
PortManagement
PortManagement
Port
Management
Port
Management
PortManagement
PortManagement
PortManagement
PortManagement
Port
--- Page 4 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 288
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 A Management Port is a Management Entity that  acts as the interface between the Management 
Fabric within a chiplet and a point-to-point mana gement link that interconnects two chiplets. As 
shown in Figure 8-3 . UCIe Manageability Protocol Hierarchy, below the UCIe Management Transport is 
a Management Link Encapsulation Mechanism that defines how UCIe Management Transport packets are transferred across a point-to-point management link. Two Management Link Encapsulation 
Mechanisms are defined, one for the UCIe si deband and one for the UCIe mainband. See Section 8.2  
for additional details of Management Link Encapsulation Mechanisms. Whether a specific UCIe 
sideband or mainband link in a chiplet may function as a point-to-point management link is 
implementation specific.
A chiplet that supports manageability should support at least one UCIe sideband Management Port. To 
enable broad interoperability, it is strongly recommended that a chiplet support enough UCIe 
sideband Management Ports to enable construction of an SiP with a single management domain using 
only UCIe sideband. If a chiplet supports management  applications that require high bandwidth, such 
as test, debug, and telemetry, then it is stro ngly recommended that the chiplet support UCIe 
mainband Management Ports.
A Management Fabric within a UCIe chiplet facili tates communication between Management Entities 
inside the chiplet. A Management Entity is a Management Element, a Management Port, or a 
Management Bridge. The Management Fabric may be realized using one or more on-die fabrics and the implementation of the Management Fabric is beyond the scope of this specification.
A Management Element is a Management Entity  that implements a management service. A 
Management Element must support the UCIe Mana gement Transport protocol and one or more 
Management protocols.
A Management Bridge is a Management Entity that interconnects the Management Network to 
another interconnect, allowing agents on the Ma nagement Network and the other interconnect to 
communicate. The interconnect associated with a bridge  may be internal to an SiP or external to the 
SiP.
One of the Management Elements within an SiP is  designated as the Management Director. An SiP 
may contain multiple Management Elements that may act as a Management Director; however, there 
can only be one active Management Director at a time. How the Management Director is selected in 
such SiPs is beyond the scope of this specificatio n. The roles of the Management Director include the 
following:
• Discovering chiplets and configuring Chiplet IDs,• Discovering and configuring Management Elements,Figure 8-3. UCIe Manageability Protocol Hierarchy
UCIe Management TransportUCIe Protocol(s)Management
Protocol
UCIe Management 
Transport
Management Link 
Encapsulation
MechanismUCIe Sideband
Management Link
Encapsulation 
MechanismUCIe Mainband
Management Link
Encapsulation 
Mechanism
--- Page 5 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 289
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Discovering and configuring Management Ports,
• Discovering and configuring Management Bridges,
• Acting as the manageability Root of Trust (RoT), and
• Coordinating overall management of the SiP.
One or more of the Management Elements within an SiP may function as a Security Director. A 
Security Director is responsible for configuring security parameters.
The relationship between the various type  of Management Entities is shown in Figure 8-4 .
Unless otherwise specified, UCIe manageability,  Management Entities, and all associated 
manageability structures in a chiplet (e.g., those in  a Management Capability Structure) are reset on 
a Management Reset. A Management Reset occurs on initial application of power to a chiplet. Other 
conditions that cause a Management Reset are implementation specific.
8.1.3 UCIe Management Transport
The UCIe Management Transport is a protocol that facilitates communication between Management Entities on an SiP’s Management Network. UCIe  Management Transport packets are produced and 
consumed by Management Entities on the Manage ment Network and the packets flow unmodified 
through the network.
8.1.3.1 UCIe Management Transport Packet
Figure 8-5  shows the fields that make up a UCIe Management Transport packet. The first two 
DWORDs contain the packet header. This is followed by a protocol specified field defined by the Management Protocol carried in the packet. Fi nally, a UCIe Management Transport packet may 
optionally contain a Packet Integrity value computed over the previous contents of the packet. If 
present, Packet Integrity is one DWORD in size.
Reserved fields in a UCIe Management Transport pack et must be filled with 0s when the packet is 
formed. Reserved fields must be forwarded unmodi fied on the Management Network and ignored by 
receivers. An implementation that relies on the value of a reserved field in a packet is non-compliant.Figure 8-4. Relationship Between the Various Types of Management Entities
Management Entity
Management Element Management Port Management Bridge
Management Director Security Director DFx Management HubOther Type of 
Management Element
--- Page 6 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 290
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-1  defines the fields of a UCIe Management Transp ort packet. All fields in the table have little 
endian bit ordering (e.g., Destination ID bits 0 thro ugh 7 are in Byte 1 with bit 0 of the Destination ID 
in Byte 1 bit 0, and Destination ID bits 8 through 15  are in Byte 0 with Destination ID bit 8 in Byte 0 
bit 0).Figure 8-5. UCIe Management Transport Packet
Table 8-1. UCIe Management Transpor t Packet Fields (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field Name Field Size Description
Destination ID 16 bitsDestination ID
This field specifies the Management Network ID of the entity on the Management 
Network that is to receive the packet.
Mgmt. Protocol ID 3 bitsManagement Protocol ID
This field contains an ID that corresponds to a Management Protocol and specifies 
the type of payload contained in the Management Protocol Specific field. See Section 8.1.3.1.3  for ID values.
TC 3 bitsTraffic Class
This field is a packet label used to enable  different packet servicing policies. Each 
Traffic Class is a unique ordering domain  with no ordering guarantees between 
packets in different Traffic Classes. See Section 8.1.3.1.1 .
PIPP 2 bitsPacket Integrity Protection Present (PIPP)
A nonzero value in this field indicates that the packet contains a packet integrity 
protection value in the Packet Integrity Protection field. The type of packet integrity 
is indicated by the nonzero value. See Section 8.1.3.4  for more information.
00b: Packet Integrity Protection field is not present in the packet
11b: CRC Integrity (one DWORD in size)
Others: Reserved
Resp 1 bitRequest or Response
This field indicates whether the packet is a request or a response.0: Request packet
1: Response packet
Reserved 5 bits Reserved
Ver 2 bitsUCIe Management Transport Packet Version
This field indicates the version of the UCIe Management Transport packet.
This field must be set to 00b in this version of the specification.
If a Management Entity receives a packet with a UCIe Management Transport packet 
version that it does not support, then Management Entity must discard the packet.7654 1 32+1
0
Packet
HeaderDWORD 0
DWORD 1+0
7654 1 32+3
0 7654 1 32+2
0
Destination ID
Source ID
DWORD 3
...
DWORD MSecurity Clearance
GroupLengthMgmt.
Protocol
ID
DWORD 2TC
RespPIPP Ver
Packet Integrity Protection (Optional)Packet
Integrity
ProtectionDWORD M+1
DWORD NManagement
Protocol
SpecificReserved7654 1 32 0
--- Page 7 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 291
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 A request packet is a packet with the Resp field in the UCIe Management Transport packet header 
assigned to 0. A requester is a Management Entity  that first introduces a request packet into a 
Management Fabric. A responder is the Management En tity that performs the actions associated with 
a request that consists of one or more request packets and is the ultimate destination of these 
request packet(s). A response packet is a packet with the Resp field in the UCIe Management 
Transport packet header assigned to 1. As a resu lt of performing the actions associated with a 
request, the responder may introduce one or more  response packets into the Management Fabric 
destined to the requester.
A Management entity that receives a malformed packet must discard the packet.
• A packet with an incorrect length in the Length field is malformed.
— An example of a malformed packet with an inco rrect length in the Length field is one where 
the Length field in the UCIe Management Transp ort packet header indicates a length of 65 
DWORDs but the actual length of the packet is 64 DWORDs.
• A packet whose size exceeds the Management Transport Packet size supported by a chiplet is 
malformed.
• A packet that violates a requirement outlined in this specification is malformed.
— An example of a malformed packet due to a requirement violation is a response packet with a 
nonzero value in the Security Clearance Group field.
8.1.3.1.1 Traffic Class and Pa cket Ordering Requirements
Traffic classes (TCs) are used to enable different packet servicing policies. The UCIe Management 
Transport supports eight traffic classes, and the characteristics of each traffic class are described in 
Table 8-2 . The Management Director configures management fabric routes and may configure 
different routes for different traffic classes (e.g ., TC0 traffic may be routed to UCIe sideband 
Management Port A and TC2 traffic may be routed to UCIe mainband Management Port B).Source ID 16 bitsSource ID
This field indicates the Management Network ID of the entity on the Management 
Network that originated the packet.
Security Clearance Group 7 bitsSecurity Clearance Group
This field is used by the UCIe Management  Transport access control mechanism. In 
request packets, this field is set to the security clearance group value associated with the request. In response packets, this  field is not used and must be set to 00h.
Length 9 bitsLength
This field indicates the length of the enti re packet in DWORDs. This includes the 
UCIe Management Network Header, the Management Protocol Specific field, and the 
Packet Integrity Protection field if present.
The length of the packet in DWORDs is equal to the value of this field plus 1 (e.g., a 
value of 000h in this field indicates a pack et length of one DWORD, a value of 001h 
in this field indicates a packet length of two DWORDs, and so on).
Management Protocol 
SpecificVariesManagement Protocol Specific
This field contains Management Protocol specific packet contents. The format of this 
field is indicated by the Management Protocol field.
This field must be an integral number of DWORDs.
Packet Integrity 
ProtectionVariesPacket Integrity Protection
If the Packet Integrity Protection Present (PIPP) field in the packet has a nonzero 
value, then this field is present in the packet and corresponding packet integrity 
value. See Section 8.1.3.4  for more information.
This field must be an integral number of DWORDs.
In this version of the specification only CRC integrity protection is supported which is 
always one DWORD.Table 8-1. UCIe Management Transpor t Packet Fields (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field Name Field Size Description
--- Page 8 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 292
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 A request packet and an associated response packet need not have the same traffic class. Which 
traffic classes are allowed and how they are mapped between a request and response are 
Management Protocol specific.
An implementation shall ensure forward progress on all traffic classes. Quality of service between 
traffic classes is implementation specific and beyond the scope of this specification.
Each traffic class is a unique ordering domain an d there are no ordering guarantees for packets in 
different traffic classes and there are no ordering guarantees between request and response packets in the same traffic class. Regardless of the traffic class, a response packet associated with any traffic 
class must be able to bypass a blocked request packet associated with any traffic class.
Within an ordered traffic class, request packets are delivered in-order from a requester to a responder 
and response packets are delivered in-order from a responder to the requester. There are no ordering 
guarantees between requests to different responde rs and there are no ordering guarantees between 
responses from different re sponders to a requester.
Within an unordered traffic class there are no ordering guarantees between packets of any type and 
the chiplet’s Management Fabric is free to arbitrarily reorder packets. While packets may be reordered 
on an unordered traffic class, there is no requiremen t that they be reordered (i.e., an implementation 
is free to maintain ordering as in an ordered traffic class).
Packets associated with a lossy traffic class may be  dropped during normal operation. The policy used 
to determine when a lossy traffic class packet is dropped is vendor defined and beyond the scope of 
this specification (e.g., due to exceeding a vendor defined congestion threshold). Lossless traffic 
classes are reliable, and packets associated with a lossless traffic class are not dropped during normal operation; however, packets associated with a lossless traffic class may be dropped due to an error Table 8-2. Traffic Class Characteristics
Traffic Class Description
0Default Ordered Lossless Traffic Class
Traffic class optimized for packets that require high reliability and availability.
Example: Configuration and health monitoring packets
1Low Latency Ordered Lossless Traffic Class
This traffic class has the same characteristics as the Default Ordered Lossless 
Traffic Class but is intended to be lightl y loaded and used for packets that require 
low latency and should bypass congested Default Ordered Lossless Traffic Class 
packets.
Example: Debug cross trigger and low latency power management packets
2Bulk Lossless Ordered Performance Traffic Class
Traffic class optimized for packets associated with bulk traffic. In a properly 
functioning system without errors, packets in this traffic class are never dropped.
Example: Firmware download packets
3Bulk Lossy Ordered Performance Traffic Class
Traffic class optimized for packets associated with bulk traffic that may be dropped 
in the presence of congestion.
Example: Debug trace packets
4Unordered Lossless Traffic Class
Traffic class optimized for packets that require high performance. Request packets 
in this traffic class may be delivered out-of-order. Response packets in this traffic class may be delivered out-of-order.
Example: High performance UCIe Memory Access protocol accesses.
5 to 6 Reserved
7 Vendor-Specific Traffic Class
--- Page 9 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 293
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 condition. The detection of lost packets and recovery from lost packets is the responsibility of a 
Management Protocol.
To maintain forward compatibility, a UCIe Management Transport packet with a reserved traffic class 
value is treated in the same manner as a packet with a traffic class value of zero (i.e., Default Ordered 
Lossless Traffic Class).
To maintain interoperability, all implementations are required to support all traffic classes; however, 
an implementation is only required to maintain the ordered and lossless characteristics of a traffic 
class. All other traffic class characteristics may be ignored. For example, an implementation may treat 
all traffic classes in the same manner as the De fault Ordered Lossless Traffic Class. Under no 
circumstances may packets in an ordered traffic class be reordered between a requester and a 
responder. Similarly, under no circumstances may a packet in a lossless traffic class be dropped in a 
properly functioning system without errors.
8.1.3.1.2 Packet Length
The length of a Packet is indicated by the Length fi eld, is an integral number of DWORDs, and consists 
of the entire length of the packet (i.e., the UCIe Management Network Header, the Management 
Protocol Specific field, and Packet Integrity Protection field if present.).
The maximum packet length architecturally support ed by the UCIe Management Transport is 512 
DWORDs (i.e., 2048B). A chiplet may support a maximum packet length that is less than the 
architectural limit. The Maximum Packet Size (MPS) field in the Chiplet Capability Structure indicates 
the maximum packet size supported by the chiplet. If  a packet larger than that advertised by MPS is 
received on a Management Port or Management Bri dge, then it is silently discarded and not emitted 
on the chiplet’s Management Fabric.
The Configured Maximum Packet Size (CMPS) field in the Chiplet Capability Structure controls the 
maximum UCIe Management Transport packet size generated by a Management Entity within the 
chiplet. The initial value of this field corresponds to 8 DWORDs (i.e., 64B). The CMPS field does not 
affect UCIe Management Transport packets emitte d by Management Ports and Management Bridges 
when forwarding packets into a chiplet’s Management Fabric. This allows packets to be routed through 
the chiplet (e.g., between Manageme nt Ports) that are larger than the size of packets generated by 
Management Entities within the chiplet.
8.1.3.1.3 Management Protocol
The Management Protocol field in a packet contains a Management Protocol ID that indicates the 
format of the Management Protocol Specific field. Table 8-3  lists the Management Protocols supported 
by the UCIe Management Transport.IMPLEMENTATION NOTE — C HIPLET  ROUTE THROUGH
Chiplet route through occurs when a UCIe Management Transport packet flows through a chiplet (i.e., the packet enters a chiplet through a UCIe Management Port, 
is not destined to any Management Entity within the chiplet, and the packet matches 
a Route Entry that causes it to be routed out a UCIe Management Port). Due to chiplet route through it is desirable that  chiplets implement the packet servicing 
policies associated with a TC even if none of the Management Entities within the 
chiplet utilize that TC. Chiplets are always  required to support chiplet route through 
for all traffic classes.
--- Page 10 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 294
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.2 Management Network ID
Management Network IDs are used to uniquely iden tify Management Entities in the Management 
Network and to route UCIe Management Tran sport packets between Management Entities.
As shown in Figure 8-6 , a Management Network ID is a 16-bit field that consists of the concatenation 
of a Chiplet ID and an Entity ID. The Chiplet ID uniquely identifies a chiplet within an SiP and the 
Entity ID is a fixed value that uniquely identifies a Management Entity within a chiplet. Together the 
Chiplet ID and Entity ID uniquely identify each Management Entity in an SiP.
The size of the Chiplet ID in bits  is chiplet implementation specific  and may be 2-bits to 15-bits in 
size. The size of the Entity ID in bits is also ch iplet implementation specific and may be 1-bit to 14-
bits in size. For each chiplet, the sum of the size of  the Chiplet ID and the Entity ID must be 16-bits. 
The size of the Chiplet ID and Entity ID fields may be different in different chiplets in an SiP (i.e., it is not a requirement that all chiplets of an SiP have the same Chiplet ID field size). To facilitate 
interoperability an implementation should make the Chiplet ID field as large as possible (i.e., make 
the Entity ID field only as large as needed to  address Management Entities in the chiplet).
The Management Director initializes the Chiplet ID  value associated with each chiplet during SiP 
initialization. This is done by writing the Chiplet ID  value to the Chiplet field in the Chiplet Capability 
Structure and setting the Chiplet ID Valid bit in that structure. The Management Director may 
determine the size of the Chiplet ID associated wi th a chiplet by examining the initial value of the 
Chiplet ID field in the Chiplet Capability Structure or by determining which bits are read-write in this field.
Each Management Entity within a chiplet has a fixed En tity ID. Entity ID zero within each chiplet must 
be a Management Element that is used to initiali ze and configure the chiplet. Entity IDs within a 
chiplet that map to Management Entities may be sparse. For example, a chiplet may contain 
Management Entities at Management Entity IDs zero, one, and three. The other Entity IDs are 
unused. A UCIe Management Packet that targets an unused Entity ID within a chiplet is silently 
discarded by the chiplet’s Management Fabric.Table 8-3. Management Protocol IDs
Management Protocol ID Description
0 Reserved
1UCIe Memory Access Protocol
This protocol is used to access memory mapped structures and memory.
2 UCIe Test and Debug Protocol3 to 6 Reserved
7 Vendor defined
Figure 8-6. Management Network ID Format
0
Entity ID Chiplet ID15 N-1 N
--- Page 11 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 295
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.3 Routing
UCIe Management Transport packets are routed ba sed on the Destination ID field in the UCIe 
Management Network Header.
The routing of UCIe Management Transport packets differs depending on whether the Chiplet ID value 
is initialized or uninitialized. The Ch iplet ID value is initialized when th e Chiplet ID Valid bit is set to 1 
in the Chiplet Capability Structure. The Chiplet ID va lue is uninitialized when th e Chiplet ID Valid bit is 
cleared to 0 in the Chiplet Capability Structure.
A UCIe Management Transport request packet is one where the Resp field is cleared to 0. A UCIe 
Management Transport response packet is one where the Resp field is set to 1.
While the Chiplet ID and Entity ID size of chiplets may vary in an SiP, all packet routing associated 
with a chiplet is performed using the Chiplet ID  size of the chiplet performing the routing.
The method used to configure UCIe Management Tran sport routing within an SiP is beyond the scope 
of this specification. The routing may be pre- determined during SiP design and this static 
configuration may be used by the Management Dire ctor to configure routing. Alternatively, the 
Management Director may discover the SiP configuration (i.e., chiplets, Management Network 
topology, and Chiplet ID size of each chiplet) and use this information to dynamically configure 
routing.
Because the Management Network may contain red undant management links between chiplets as 
well as links that form cycles, care must be exercised to ensure that the UCIe Management Transport 
routing is acyclic and deadlock free. In the absenc e of faults, request packets and response packets 
are delivered in order; however, it is possible to configure UCIe Management Transport routing such 
that the path used by a request packet from a reques ter to a responder is different from path used by 
a response packet from the responder back to the requester.
8.1.3.3.1 Routing of a Packet from a Management Entity within the Chiplet
This section describes routing of a UCIe Manageme nt Transport packet generated by a Management 
Entity within the chiplet.
• If the chiplet’s Chiplet ID va lue is initialized, then the packet is routed as follows.
— If the Chiplet ID portion of the packet’s Dest ination ID matches the Chiplet ID value of the 
chiplet performing the routing, the packet is ro uted within the chiplet based on the Entity ID 
portion of the packet’s Destination ID.
o If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID matches that of a Management 
Entity within the chiplet, then the packet is routed to that Management Entity.IMPLEMENTATION NOTE — C ONFIGURING  ROUTING  IN AN SIP 
WITH DIFFERENT  CHIPLET  ID S IZES
A System-in-Package (SiP) may be composed of chiplets with varying sizes for the 
Chiplet ID portion of the Management Network ID. To establish routing within such an 
SiP, one approach is to identify the smallest  Chiplet ID size among all chiplets in the 
SiP. Subsequently, Route Entries (as described in Section 8.1.3.6.2.2 ) are configured 
as if each chiplet possessed a Chiplet ID size  equivalent to this minimum. For chiplets 
with a Chiplet ID size exceeding the minimum, any unused Chiplet ID bits are 
assigned 0 in the Base ID field of a Route En try and set to 1 in the Limit ID field of a 
Route Entry.
--- Page 12 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 296
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 o If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID does not match that of any 
Management Entity within the chiplet, then the packet is discarded.
— If the Chiplet ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID does not match the Chiplet ID value of 
the chiplet, then the packet is routed based on Management Port Route Entries.
o If the packet’s Destination ID matches a Route Entry associated with a Management Port, 
then the packet is routed out that Management Port. See Section 8.1.3.6.2.2  for Route 
Entry matching rules.
o If the packet’s Destination ID matches multip le Route Entries within the chiplet and the 
packet is associated with an ordered traf fic class, then the packet is discarded.
o If the packet’s Destination ID matches multip le Route Entries within the chiplet and the 
packet is associated with an unordered traffic class, then the packet is routed out one of the Management Ports with a matching Route Entry. Which matching Route Entry is 
selected in the unordered traffic class case is vendor defined.
o If the packet’s Destination ID does not match any Route Entries within the chiplet, then 
the packet is discarded.
• If the chiplet’s Chiplet ID value is uniniti alized, then packet is routed as follows.
— If the packet is a UCIe Management Transport Response packet and the corresponding UCIe 
Management Transport Request packet was received from a Management Port, then the 
packet is routed as follows.
o If the link is up that is associated with Ma nagement Port on which the corresponding UCIe 
Management Transport Request packet was received, then the response packet is routed 
out that same Management Port on virtual channel zero (VC0). This allows a Management Entity outside the chiplet to configure the chip let before the chiplet’s Chiplet ID value is 
initialized.
o If the link associated with Management Port on which the corresponding UCIe 
Management Transport Request packet was received is not up, then the response packet 
is discarded.
— Otherwise, the packet is routed within the ch iplet based on the Entity ID portion of the 
packet’s Destination ID.
o If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID matches that of a Management 
Entity within the chiplet, then the packet is routed to that Management Entity.
o If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID does not match that of any 
Management Entity within the chiplet, then the packet is discarded.
--- Page 13 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 297
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.3.2 Routing of a Packet Received on a Management Port
This Section describes routing of a UCIe Manage ment Transport packet received on a chiplet’s 
Management Port.
• If the chiplet’s Chiplet ID value is  initialized, then the packet is routed in the same manner is a 
packet generated by a Management Entity within the chiplet. See Section 8.1.3.3.1  for how such 
a packet is routed.
• If the chiplet’s Chiplet ID value is  uninitialized, then the packet is routed within the chiplet based 
on the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID.
— If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID matches that of a Management Entity 
within the chiplet, then the packet is routed to that Management Entity.
— If the Entity ID portion of the packet’s Destination ID does not match that of any Management 
Entity within the chiplet, then the packet is discarded.
8.1.3.4 Packet Integrity Protection
A UCIe Management Transport packet may optionally co ntain a Packet Integrity Protection field that is 
used to protect the integrity of the packet. The pres ence and type of packet integrity are indicated by 
the Packet Integrity Protection Present (PIPP) field in the packet.
CRC protection, defined in Section 8.1.3.4.1 , is the only packet integrity protection currently defined 
and is one DWORD in size.
8.1.3.4.1 CRC Integrity Protection
When the PIPP field in a packet is set to 11b, then th e Packet Integrity Protection field in the packet is 
one DWORD in size and contains a 32-bit CRC comput ed over the previous contents of the packet 
(i.e., the UCIe Management Network Header and Mana gement Protocol Specific field). Each bit of the 
Packet Integrity Protection field is set to the corre sponding bit of the comput ed CRC (e.g., bit 31 of 
the computed CRC corresponds to bit 31 of  the Packet Integrity Protection field).
The 32-bit CRC required by this specification is  CRC-32C (Castagnoli) which uses the generator 
polynomial 1EDC6F41h. The CRC is calculated us ing the following Rocksoft™ Model CRC Algorithm 
parameters:
Name : "CRC-32C"
Width : 32IMPLEMENTATION NOTE — R OUTING  FOR UNINITIALIZED  CHIPLET  IDS
When a chiplet’s Chiplet ID value is uninitia lized, then a packet received on a chiplet’s 
Management Port is routed based on the Enti ty ID portion of the packet’s Destination 
ID to a Management Entity within the chiple t, if one exists. When a response packet 
is emitted by this Management Entity, the packet is routed out the same Management Port on which the corresponding request was received. This allows an agent external 
to the chiplet to configure the chiplet be fore the Chiplet ID and Route Entries are 
initialized (e.g., follow ing a Management Reset).
When a response packet is routed out the Management Port on which the 
corresponding request was received, it is routed out the Management Port on virtual 
channel zero. While there is no requirement that requests to uninitialized chiplets use virtual channel zero (VC0), it is strongly encouraged that virtual channel zero be 
used.
--- Page 14 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 298
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Poly : 1EDC6F41h
Init : FFFFFFFFh
RefIn : True
RefOut : TrueXorOut : FFFFFFFFh
Check : E3069283h
When the PIPP field in a packet is set to 11b and the CRC contained in the Packet Integrity Protection 
field is incorrect, then the packet is discarded.
8.1.3.5 Access Control
The Management Network in an SiP may contain mult iple Management Entities that issue requests 
and multiple Management Entities that expose asse ts (e.g., structures, keys, or memory). The UCIe 
Management Transport supports an access control mechanism that may be used by a Management 
Protocol to prevent unauthorized access to assets  by Management Entities on the Management 
Network.
Some Management Protocols have their own security architecture, so the use of the access control 
mechanism is Management Protocol specific. Table 8-4  shows which Management Protocols use the 
access control mechanism.
The access control mechanism is based on a 7-bit security clearance group value contained in request 
packets. When a Management Entity emits a re quest packet on the Management Network, it 
populates the Security Clearance Group field in the packet with a value that corresponds to the 
security clearance group associated with the reques ter. When a Management Entity receives a request 
packet, it determines whether the asset(s) accessed by the request are allowed or prohibited by that 
security clearance group.
A Management Entity may emit packets with diff erent security clearance group values. How the 
security clearance group values that a Management En tity emits are configured or selected is beyond 
the scope of this specification (see Section 8.1.3.6.4.1 ).
Although the security clearance group value is seven bits in size, an implementation may choose to 
restrict the number of security clearance groups. When an implementation restricts the number of 
security clearance groups to a value N, then secu rity clearance group values from 0 to (N-1) are 
allowed, and security clearance group values from N to 127 are not allowed. Security Clearance Group 
0 is dedicated for use by Security Directors (see Section 8.1.3.5.2 ).
The method a Management Entity uses to determine whether a request packet is allowed access to an 
asset is shown in Figure 8-7  and consists of the following steps.
1. The standard asset class ID or the vendor defined asset class ID of the asset being accessed by 
the request packet is determined.Table 8-4. Management Protocol use of Access Control Mechanism
Management Protocol Uses Access Control Mechanism
UCIe Memory Access Protocol Yes
UCIe Test and Debug Protocol Yesa
a. The UCIe Test and Debug Protocol uses the UCIe Memo ry Access Protocol for configuration and status field
accesses and as a result uses the Access Control Mechanism.Vendor Defined Vendor Defined
--- Page 15 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 299
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 — UCIe defines standard asset classes (see Section 8.1.3.5.1 ) and supports vendor defined 
asset classes. Each asset must map to a standard asset class, a vendor defined asset class, or 
both.
— Associated with each asset class is an asset class ID. The mapping associated with this step 
produces a standard asset class ID, a vendor defined asset class ID, or both.
— The manner and granularity in which an implem entation maps assets to asset class IDs are 
beyond the scope of this specification and may be done as part of address decoding, tagging 
of assets, or some other mechanism.
2. Each asset class ID determined in the previo us step is mapped to a 256-bit access control 
structure.
— Associated with each asset class ID is a 128-bit Read Access Control (RAC) structure and a 
128-bit Write Access Control (WAC) structure. If an asset’s state is being read, then the RAC 
structure is selected as the access control stru cture. If an asset’s state is being written/
modified, then the WAC structure is selected as the access control structure.
o RAC and WAC structures are contained in the Access Control Capability Structure (see 
Section 8.1.3.6.3 ).
o If a Management Entity does not have any assets that correspond to an asset class ID, 
then the RAC and WAC structures associated with that asset class ID must be hardwired to 0 (i.e., all the bits on both the RAC and WA C structures are read-only with a value of 0) 
so no accesses would be allowed.
o If an implementation restricts the number of security clearance groups, then RAC and 
WAC structure bits associated with security clearance groups that are not supported must 
be hardwired to 0. For example, if an implementation only supports Security Clearance Groups 0 through 3, then bits 4 through 127 must be read-only with a value of 0 in all 
RAC and WAC structures.
3. The bit corresponding to the security clearance gr oup value in the request packet is examined in 
each access control structure determined in the pr evious step to determine whether access to the 
asset is allowed.
— The 7-bit security clearance group value in the request packet is a value from 0 to 127 and 
this value maps to a corresponding bit in a 128-bit access structure (e.g., security clearance group value 27 maps to access control structure bit 27).
— If a bit corresponding to the security clearance group value in an access control structure is 
set to one, then access to that asset is allowed by that security clearance group. If a bit 
corresponding to the security clearance group value in an access control structure is set to 0, 
then access to that asset is prohibited by that security clearance group.
4. If access to the asset is allowed by either the standard asset class or the vendor defined asset, 
then access to the asset is granted and the request is processed. If access to the asset class is prohibited by both the standard asset class and a vendor defined asset class, then access to the 
asset is prohibited and the request is not processed.
— How a request that attempts to access a prohib ited asset is handled is Management Protocol 
specific.
If a request packet requires access to multiple  assets for the request to be serviced, then Step 1  
through Step 3  are performed and the request is processed on ly if access is granted to all assets. If 
access is prohibited to any asset associated with the request, then no asset is accessed by the 
request.
--- Page 16 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 300
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.5.1 Standard Asset Classes
The objective of the standard asset classes is to provide a consistent classification of assets across 
chiplet implementations and applications for access control. To achieve this, it must be possible for a 
chiplet implementer to map chiplet assets that are accessible over the Management Network into 
asset classes without understanding the underlying architecture, roles, or applications associated with an SiP that uses the chiplet.
Standard asset class 0 is for SiP security configuration (e.g., reading and writing the RAC and WAC 
structures). The remaining standard asset classes ar e constructed by taking the Cartesian product of 
a set of asset types and asset contexts and removing  elements that are not applicable in practice. 
Asset types used to construct the standard asset class are shown in Table 8-5  and asset contexts used 
to construct the standard asset class are shown in Table 8-6 . The standard asset classes are shown in 
Table 8-7 .
In some cases, an asset may logically map to two or more standard asset classes. For example, a 
memory region may contain both SiP data and chiplet data. When this occurs, the asset should be 
mapped to the standard asset class with the lowest ID value.
In some cases, further access control granularity may be desired beyond what is offered by the 
standard asset classes. This granul arity may be accomplished by sepa rating the assets into different 
Management Elements within the chiplet. For exam ple, a chiplet may contain two global secrets and 
the chiplet implementor may wish to allow one set of requesters access to the first global secret and a 
separate set of requesters access to the second glob al secret. By putting the two global assets into 
two different Management Elements, different security clearance groups may be given access to each 
global secret. In another example, a chiplet may co ntain an I/O controller and a memory controller 
and the chiplet implementor may wish to allow on e security clearance group to configure the I/O 
controller and a different security clearance group to  configure the memory cont roller. This granularity 
may be achieved by putting the I/O controller and memory controller in different Management Elements.Figure 8-7. Access Control Determination in a Responder Management Entity
UCIe Management 
Transport PacketRAC0Standard Asset Class
Access Table
Security Clearance GroupWAC0
RAC1
WAC1
...
RAC25
WAC25
Decode of 
asset being 
accessed 
(e.g., address 
decode)Asset (Register)
Standard Asset Class ID
Vendor Specific Asset Class ID
Management Entity 
ResponderRAC0Vendor Defined Asset Class 
Access Table
WAC0
RAC1
WAC1
...
RACy
WACyRead selects RAC
Write selects WACRAC or WAC0 127
Read selects RAC
Write selects WACRAC or WAC
0 127RAC or WAC bit  that 
corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group
RAC or WAC
bit selected
corresponding to
Security Clearance GroupOR
RAC or WAC bit  that corresponds to Security 
Clearance GroupAccess
AllowedSecurity
Clearance 
Group
--- Page 17 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 301
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-5. Asset Types
Asset Type Description
Persistent One-Time SecretData or configuration that is persistent, one-time programmable, and considered a secret 
or sensitive configuration.
Example: one-time programmable device secret
SecretA secret, data, or status that may compromise a secret, or configuration that may control 
the exposure of a secret.
Example: security key
Permanent Denial of Service (PDOS)Data or configuration that could potentially cause permanent denial of service.
Example: thermal, power, or voltage controls
SensitiveVolatile or persistent data that should have limited exposure, status that could expose 
information that should have limited exposure, or configuration that may control 
exposure or modification of sensitive information.
Examples: error injection capa bilities, sensitive state mach ines, private memory space
PermanentData or configuration that is one-time programmable and is not sensitive or a secret.
Example: general fuses
DataGeneral data or user data that is not sensitive or a secret.
Example: application space
ConfigurationGeneral configuration that cannot be used to expose user, sensitive, or secret 
information.
StatusGeneral status that cannot be used to expose user, sensitive, or secret information.
Example: boot status
Table 8-6. Asset Contexts
Asset Context Description
GlobalAsset associated with or which affects chip lets or SiPs produced by a manufacturer.
The definition of the manufacturer is beyond the scope of the specification and may be 
the SiP integrator, the SiP designer, or an IP provider. All that matters is that the asset is the same in SiPs of that type (i.e., a global key).
SiP Asset associated with or which affects a specific SiP.
Chiplet Asset associated with or which affects a specific chiplet.
PartitionAsset associated with or which affects a partition. The definition of a partition is vendor 
defined but is broadly defined as a collection of hardware resources that act as an 
independent unit.
Table 8-7. Standard Security Asset Classes (Sheet 1 of 2)
Standard 
Security Asset 
Class IDAsset Context Asset Type
0 SiP SiP Security Configuration
1G l o b a l S e c r e t2 SiP Persistent One-Time Secret
3S i P S e c r e t
4 SiP Permanent Denial of Service (PDOS)5 SiP Sensitive
6S i P P e r m a n e n t
7S i P D a t a8 SiP Configuration
--- Page 18 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 302
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.5.2 Security Director
A Management Element within an SiP that may conf igure security parameters is designated as a 
Security Director. An SiP may contain multiple Secu rity Directors. When an SiP contains multiple 
Security Directors, coordination between security di rectors is beyond the scope of this specification.
The Security Clearance Group value of 0 is reserved for Security Directors and must not be used for 
any other purpose.
The Management Director may also be a Security Director. While it is not recommended that the 
Management Director operate using the Security  Clearance Group value reserved for Security 
Directors (i.e., 0) during normal operation, it is required to operate with this value during initial 
configuration. When and how a Management Director changes the Security Clearance Group used for 
transactions is beyond the scope of this specification.
8.1.3.6 Initialization and Configuration
UCIe Management Transport initialization and configuration are performed through read and write operations using the UCIe Memory Access protocol to Management Entity fields. Management Entity 
fields are grouped by function into Management Capability Structures.
Unless otherwise specified, Management Capability Structures and any sub-structures must be read 
or written as single DWORD quantities (i.e., the Le ngth field in the UCIe Memory Access Request must 
be 0h which represents a data length of one DWOR D). All fields in a Management Capability Structure 
and any sub-structures have little endian bit ordering.
A Management Entity may support the UCIe Memory Access protocol (see Section 8.1.4 ) which 
exposes a 64-bit address space associated with the Management Entity containing fields that allow 
configuration by another Management Entity, such as the Management Director.9S i P S t a t u s
10 Chiplet Permanent Secret
11 Chiplet Secret12 Chiplet Permanent Denial of Service (PDOS)
13 Chiplet Sensitive
14 Chiplet Permanent15 Chiplet Data
16 Chiplet Configuration
17 Chiplet Status18 Partition Permanent Secret
19 Partition Secret
20 Partition Permanent Denial of Service (PDOS)21 Partition Sensitive
22 Partition Permanent
23 Partition Data24 Partition Configuration
25 Partition StatusTable 8-7. Standard Security Asset Classes (Sheet 2 of 2)
Standard 
Security Asset 
Class IDAsset Context Asset Type
--- Page 19 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 303
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Each chiplet must support Management Element 0. Chiplet initialization and configuration are 
performed through Management Element 0 using th e Chiplet Capability Structure and as a result 
Management Element 0 must support the UCIe Memory Access protocol. A chiplet may contain other 
Management Entities and the number of such Manage ment Entities is implementation specific. These 
additional Management Entities may support the UCIe Memory Access protocol.
Figure 8-8  shows the UCIe Memory Access protocol memory map associated with a Management 
Entity that support the UCIe Memory Access Protoc ol. The contents and organization of the memory 
map are implementation specific except for a 64-bit Capability Directory Pointer value located at 
address 0. If the Management Entity implements any Management Capability Structures, then the 
Management Capability Directory Pointer contains the address of a Management Capability Directory. 
If the Management Entity does not implement any Management Capability Structures, then the 
Management Capability Directory Pointer contains a value of 0.
The Management Capability Directory, described in Section 8.1.3.6.1 , contains a list of pointers (i.e., 
64-bit UCIe Memory Access protocol addresses) to  Management Capability Structures supported by 
the Management Entity and contains a pointer (i.e., the Element ID) of the next  Management Entity in 
the chiplet if one exists.
Figure 8-8. Memory Map for Management Entities
0000_0000_0000_0000hCapability Directory 
PointerFFFF_FFFF_FFFF_FFFFh
Capability
DirectoryCapability StructureCapability Structure
Capability Structure
--- Page 20 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 304
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 The organization that all Management Capability Structures follow is shown in Figure 8-9 . 
A Management Capability Structure is at least two DWORDs in size and may be larger. The size 
of a Management Capability Structure is Management  Capability Structure specific. Associated with 
each Management Capability Structure is a Management Capability ID that identifies the capability. The list of Management Capability ID s defined by UCIe are listed in Table 8-8 .
The top 4096 Management Capability IDs are available for vendor-defined use. The organization of a 
Vendor Defined Management Capability Structure is shown in Figure 8-10 . Bits 0 through 15 of 
DWORD 1 contain the UCIe-assigned identifier of  the vendor that specified the Management 
Capability Structure.
8.1.3.6.1 Management Capability Directory
The Management Capability Directory provides a method for discovery of Management Capability 
Structures associated with a Management Entity. The structure of the Management Capability 
Directory is shown in Figure 8-11  and described in Table 8-9 .Figure 8-9. Management Capabi lity Structure Organization
Table 8-8. UCIe-defined Management Capability IDs
Management 
Capability IDManagement Capability Structure Name Description
0C h i p l e t S e e  Section 8.1.3.6.2
1 Access Control See Section 8.1.3.6.3
2 UCIe Memory Access Protocol See Section 8.1.4.2
3 DFx Management Hub See Section 8.3.1.1
4 Security Clearance Group5
to
12,287Reserved
12,288
to
16,383Vendor defined See Figure 8-10
Figure 8-10. Vendor Defined Management Capability Structure Organization31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Management Capability SpecificVer Management Capability ID Reserved DWORD 0...Rsvd
31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 87 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Management Capability SpecificDWORD 0...Vendor IDVer Management Capability ID Reserved
Management Capability Specific DWORD 1Rsvd
--- Page 21 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 305
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-11. Management Capability Directory
Table 8-9. Management Capa bility Directory Fields
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDa
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROCapability Directory Version
This field is a UCIe-defined version number that indicates 
the version of the capability directory.
This field must be 00h in this version of the specification
Number of 
Capability Pointers0 [29:16] 17 RONumber of Capability Pointers
This field indicates the number of Capabilit y Pointers in the 
Capability Directory. Since the UCIe Memory Access 
Protocol must be supported in order to access the Management Capability Directory, this field cannot be zero.
Next Management 
Entity ID1 [13:0] 17 RONext Management Entity ID
Each chiplet contains a list of Management Entities that 
support the UCIe Memory Access Protocol starting with 
Management Element 0. This field contains the Management Entity ID of the next Management Entity in 
the chiplet that supports the UCIe Memory Access 
Protocol. If this is the last Management Entity in the chiplet that supports the UCIe Memory  Access Protocol, then this 
field has a value of 0000h.
Management Entity IDs in this list must be ordered from 
lowest to highest and may sparse (i.e., there may be 
gaps).
The Management Entity list may be viewed as a list of 
Management Network IDs for Management Entities that support the UCIe Memory Access Protocol contained within 
the chiplet with the Chiplet ID field set to 0. 
Figure 8-12. Capability PointerDWORD 031+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Number of Capability Pointers Reserved
Reserved
Capability Pointer 0
Capability Pointer 1
...
Capability Pointer NVer
...DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3Next Management Entity IDRsvd
DWORD 0
DWORD 131+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Capability Pointer Low
Capability Pointer High
--- Page 22 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 306
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.2 Chiplet Capability Structure
The Chiplet Capability Structure must be implemente d in Management Element 0 of each chiplet and 
must not be implemented in any other Management Entity in a chiplet.
Figure 8-13  shows the organization of the Chiplet Capa bility Structure. The Chiplet Capability 
Structure describes the basic characteristics of the ch iplet. It points to a list of Management Port 
Structures that describe the characteristics of chiplet Management Ports. Each Management Port 
Structure contains one or more Route Entries that control the routing of UCIe Management Transport 
packets from the Management Fabric of the chiple t out the corresponding Management Port to an 
adjacent chiplet in the SiP.Table 8-10. Capability Pointer Fields
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDa
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
Capability Pointer 
Low0 [31:0] 17 ROCapability Pointer Low
Bits 0 to 31 of the 64-bit address of the first byte of the 
Capability Structure associated with the Capability pointed 
to by this Capability Pointer.
A value of all 0s in both the Capability Pointer Low and 
High fields indicates that this is a Null Capability Pointer and should be skipped.
Because capability structures must be DWORD-aligned, 
bits 0 and 1 must be 00b.
Capability Pointer 
High1 [31:0] 17 ROCapability Pointer High
Bits 32 to 63 of the 64-bit address of the first byte of the 
Capability Structure associated with the Capability pointed 
to by this Capability Pointer.
--- Page 23 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 307
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-13. Chiplet Capability Structure Organization
Figure 8-14. Chiplet Capability StructurePort 0
Management
Port Structure
Chiplet Capability
StructureRoute Entry 0
Route Entry 1
Route Entry 2
Route Entry 3Route Entry 0
Route Entry 1Port 1
Management
Port Structure
31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Device IDChiplet ID
Vendor IDReserved
Management Port Structure Low
Management Port Structure HighVer Management Capability ID Reserved
ReservedDWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4
DWORD 5MPS CMPSRsvd
CIV
--- Page 24 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 308
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-11. Chiplet Capability St ructure Fields (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROCapability Structure Version
This field indicates the version of this capability structure.
This field has a value of 00h in this specification.
Management 
Capability ID0 [29:16] 17 ROManagement Capability ID
This field specifies the Capability ID of this Management 
Capability Structure.
The Chiplet Capability Structure has a Management 
Capability ID of 000h.
Chiplet ID 1 [15:0] 8 RW/ROChiplet ID
This field is used to configur e the Chiplet ID portion of the 
16-bit Management Network ID associated with 
Management Element zero in the chiplet.
A Management Network ID is partitioned into a Chiplet ID 
field in the upper bits and an Entity ID field in the lower bits (see Section 8.1.3.2 ).
The lower bits of this field associated with the Entity ID 
portion of the Management Network ID are hardwired to 0 
(i.e., RO). Since bits 0 and 1 are only associated with an 
Entity ID, they are always hardwired to zero.
The upper bits of this field a ssociated with the Chiplet ID 
portion of the Management Network ID may be read and written (i.e., RW). These upper bits must be initialized with 
the Chiplet ID value associated with the chiplet. The initial 
value of these upper bits is all ones (i.e., 1).
The value of the Chiplet ID portion of the Management 
Network ID is used for UCIe Management Transport packet routing only when the Chiplet ID Valid (CIV) field is set to 1.
CIV 1 [16] 8 RWChiplet ID Valid
When this bit is set to 1, the Chiplet ID value in the Chiplet 
ID field is used for UCIe Management Transport packet 
routing.
Vendor ID 2 [15:0] 17 ROVendor ID
UCIe assigned identifier of the vendor that produced the 
chiplet.
Device ID 2 [31:16] 17 RODevice ID
Vendor assigned identifier that identifies the type of chiplet 
produced by that vendor.
The tuple (Vendor ID, Device ID) uniquely identifies a type 
of chiplet.
MPS 3 [2:0] 17 ROMaximum Packet Size
This field indicates the maximum UCIe Management 
Transport packet size supported by the chiplet (see 
Section 8.1.3.1.2 ).
000b: 4 DWORDs
001b: 8 DWORDs010b: 16 DWORDs
011b: 32 DWORDs
100b: 64 DWORDs101b: 128 DWORDs
110b: 256 DWORDs
111b: 512 DWORDs
--- Page 25 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 309
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 CMPS 3 [6:4] 16 RWConfigured Maximum Packet Size
This field indicates the configured maximum UCIe 
Management Transport packet size of the chiplet (see 
Section 8.1.3.1.2 ).
The Configured Packet Size must be less than or equal to 
the Maximum Packet Size. Setting the Configured Packet Size to a value greater than the Maximum Packet Size 
blocks all Management Entities in the chiplet from emitting 
packets.
Management Entities in the chiplet never generate UCIe 
Management Transport packets that are larger than the Configured Packet Size.
This field has no effect on how a Management Entity handles 
receipt of a packet or transfer of packets on the 
Management Fabric. These behaviors are only affected by 
the Maximum Packet Size.
The initial value of this field is 001b.
000b: 4 DWORDs
001b: 8 DWORDs010b: 16 DWORDs
011b: 32 DWORDs
100b: 64 DWORDs101b: 128 DWORDs
110b: 256 DWORDs
111b: 512 DWORDs
Management Port 
Structure Low4 [31:0] 17 ROManagement Port Structure
Bits 0 to 31 of the 64-bit address of the first Management 
Port Structure. Because the Management Port Structure 
must be DWORD-aligned, bits 0 and 1 must be 00b and are 
ignored.
If the chiplet implements zero Management Ports, then this 
field must be 0.
Management Port 
Structure High5 [31:0] 17 ROManagement Port Structure
Bits 32 to 63 of the 64-bit address of the first Management 
Port Structure.
If the chiplet implements zero Management Ports, then this 
field must be 0.
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Table 8-11. Chiplet Capability St ructure Fields (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 26 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 310
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.2.1 Management Port Structure
The Management Port Structure provides a mechanism to discover and configure the characteristics 
of a chiplet Management Port. The structure contains Route Entries associated with the port and points to the next Management Port if one exists.
Figure 8-15. Management Port Structure
Table 8-12. Management Port Structure Fields (Sheet 1 of 4)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROManagement Port Structure Version
This field indicates the version of the Management Port 
Structure.
Must be 00h for this version of the specification.
Num Route Entries 0 [19:16] 17 RONumber of Route Entries
This field indicates the number of Route Entries associated 
with this Management Port. The number of Route Entries associated with the Management Port is equal to the value 
in this field plus 1.
A Management Port must have at least one Route Entry 
associated with it. A value of 0h in this field indicates one 
Route Entry.
Port Type 0 [26:24] 17 ROManagement Port Type
This field indicates the management port type.000b: Not Implemented (skip)
001b: UCIe Sideband
010b: UCIe Mainband111b: Vendor Defined
Others: Reserved
A value of 000b indicates that the management port is not 
implemented and should be skipped.31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
NumVCsPort Type
Next Management Port Structure Low
Next Management Port Structure HighReserved
PSReserved
Port IDNum Route
Entries
Route EntriesVer Reserved
Remote Port IDDWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4
DWORD 5
DWORD 6
...Port Entity ID
VC Full BW SupportedReserved
Reserved BW Units BW Value
DWORD 7RsvrdLU LNU
DWORD 8RL Reserved
RLD Reserved IDT HT RMT Reserved Reserved Reserved
Rsvd
--- Page 27 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 311
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 RL 1 [0] 8 RWRetrain Link
Writing a 1 to this bit initiates retraining of the link 
associated with the Management Port.
Because the UCIe Management Transport may be 
multiplexed with other protocols on the link, retraining a 
port link may affect SiP operation.
Retraining a UCIe Sideband link will also retrain the 
corresponding UCIe Mainba nd link if one exists.
Retraining a link may take time to complete after this bit 
is written. Status in this structure does not reflect the 
result of a link retraining until the operation completes. 
The Retrain Link Done (RLD) field may be used to 
determine when the operation has completed.
PS 2 [0] 17 ROPort Status
This field indicates the current Management Port Status.0: Link Not Up
1: Link Up
LU 2 [1] 17 RW1CLink Up
This bit is set to 1 when the link transitions from a link not 
up to a link up state.
Writing to this field has no effect on the link.
LNU 2 [2] 17 RW1CLink Not Up
This bit is set to 1 when the link transitions from a link up 
to a link not up state.
Writing to this field has no effect on the link.
RLD 2 [3] 17 RW1CRetrain Link Done
This bit is set to 1 when a 1 is written to the Retrain Link 
(RL) field and the corresponding retrain operation has 
completed.
IDT 2[8] 17 RW1CInit Done Timeout
This bit is set to 1 when an Init Done timeout is detected 
(see Section 8.2.4.4  for details).
HT 2[9] 17 RW1CHeartbeat Timeout
This bit is set to 1 when a Heartbeat Timeout is detected 
(see Section 8.2.5.1.3  for details).
Heartbeat Timeout is implemented only on the UCIe 
sideband.
RMT 2[16] 17 RW1CRemote Management Transport
This bit is set to 1 when management transport support is 
advertised by the remote ch iplet associated with this 
Management Port (see Section 4.5.3.3.1.1 ).
Num VCs 2 [26:24] 17 RONumber of Virtual Channels
If the Port Status field indicates that the link is up, then 
the value of this field indicates the number of virtual channels available on the Management Port minus 1 (i.e., 
a value of 0 means one VC, a value of 1 means two VCs, 
and so on).
Because implemented virtual channels must always start 
at 0 and increase sequentially. A value of N in this field indicates that Virtual Channels 0 through N are available.
If the Port Status field indicates that the link is not up, 
then this field has a value of 000b.Table 8-12. Management Port Structure Fields (Sheet 2 of 4)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 28 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 312
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Port ID 3 [15:0] 17 ROPort Identifier
This field indicates the chiple t’s unique 16-bit identifier 
associated with the corresponding Management Port.
Port identifiers are statically assigned by the chiplet 
manufacturer, never change, and need not be assigned 
sequentially (i.e., their assignment may be sparse) except as outlined below.
UCIe mainband and sideband ports associated with the 
same physical connection share all port ID bits in common 
except bit 0. Bit 0 has a value of 0 in the mainband port 
identifier and a value of 1 in the corresponding sideband port identifier. For example, if a UCIe mainband port has a 
port identifier of N, then N is even and the UCIe sideband 
port associated with that mainband port is odd and has a port identifier if (N+1).
The port identifier FFFFh is reserved.
Remote Port ID 3 [31:16] 17 RORemote Port Identifier
This field indicates the remote chiplet unique 16-bit port 
identifier associated with the remote Management Port 
(i.e., the Port ID of the adjacent chiplet).
The value of this field is only valid when the Port Status 
field indicates that the link is up; otherwise, the value of 
this field is FFFFh.
The value of this field is obta ined from the remote chiplet 
during management transport path negotiation (see Section 4.5.3.3.1.1 ).
Port Entity ID 4 [13:0] 17 ROPort Entity ID
This field indicates the Entity ID associated with the 
Management Port (see Section 8.1.3.2 ).
BW Units 5 [2:0] 17 ROPort Bandwidth Units
If the Port Status field indicates that the link is up, then 
this field indicates the units associated with the BW Value 
field.
Support for port bandwidth reporting is optional.000b: Port bandwidth not reported
001b: KB/s
010b: MB/s011b: GB/s100b: TB/s
Others: Reserved
If the port Status field indicates that the link is not up or 
port bandwidth reporting is not supported, then this field 
has a value of 000b.
BW Value 5 [13:4] 17 ROPort Bandwidth Value
If the Port Status field indicates that the link is up, then 
this field indicates the maximum port bandwidth value. The units associated with the value are specified by the 
BW Units field.
If the port bandwidth may change (e.g., because a chiplet 
port supports multiple link speeds), then this field reflects 
the current port bandwidth.
Support for port bandwidth reporting is optional.
If the port Status field indicates that the link is not up or 
port bandwidth reporting is not supported, then this field 
has a value of 000h.Table 8-12. Management Port Structure Fields (Sheet 3 of 4)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 29 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 313
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.2.2 Route Entry
A Route Entry is used to specify a route from the Management Fabric within a chiplet out the 
Management Port associated with the Route Entry.
The TC Select field selects traffic classes that are filtered out from matching a Route Entry.A Route Entry may specify a normal route or a default route. The type of route is determined by the 
RT field.
While the Chiplet ID and Entity ID  size of chiplets may vary in an SiP, all Route Entry matching 
associated with a chiplet is performed us ing the Chiplet ID size of that chiplet.
Packet Route Entry matching is performed as follows.
• If a Route Entry has the Route Type field set to Normal Route, then a packet matches the Route 
Entry when all the following are true:
— The link is up,
— The packet is associated with a traffic class that has the corresponding bit of the TC Select 
field in the Route Entry set to 1,
— The Chiplet ID portion (using the Chiplet ID widt h for this chiplet) of the packet’s Destination 
ID field is greater than or equal to the value in the Base ID field, andVC Full BW 
Supported5 [23:16] 17 ROVirtual Channel Full Bandwidth Supported
Each bit in this field corresponds to a virtual channel. If 
the Port Status field indicates that the link is up and NUM 
VCs field indicates that a virtua l channel is available, then 
a value of 1 in the bit corresponding to the virtual channel 
indicates that the virtual channel supports full link 
bandwidth reported by the BW Value field from the adjacent chiplet to this chiplet. A valu e of 0 in the bit 
corresponding to the virtual channel indicates that the 
virtual channel does not support full link bandwidth from the adjacent chiplet to this  chiplet. Whether full link 
bandwidth is supported from this chiplet to the adjacent 
chiplet may be determined from the Management Port Structure in the adjacent chiplet.
If the Port Status field indicates that the link is not up, 
then none of the virtual channels associated with the port 
are available.
If a virtual channel is not available, then the value of the 
bit corresponding to the virtual channel has a value of 0.
Next Management 
Port Structure Low6 [31:0] 17 RONext Management Port Structure Low
Bits 0 to 31 of the 64-bit address of the first byte of the 
next Management Port Structure. Because Management Port Structures must be DWORD-aligned, bits 0 and 1 
must be 00b.
A value of all 0s in both the Management Port Structure 
Low and High fields indicates that there are no more 
Management Port Structures.
Next Management 
Port Structure High7 [31:0] 17 RONext Management Port Structure High
Bits 32 to 63 of the 64-bit address of the first byte of the 
Management Port Structure. A value of all 0s in both the 
Management Port Structure Low and High fields indicates 
that there are no more Management Port Structures.
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Table 8-12. Management Port Structure Fields (Sheet 4 of 4)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 30 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 314
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 — The Chiplet ID portion (using the Chiplet ID widt h for this chiplet) of the packet’s Destination 
ID field is less than or equal to the value in the Limit ID field.
• If a Route Entry has the Route Type field set to Default Route, then a packet matches the route 
when all the following are true:
— The link is up,— The packet is associated with a traffic class that has the corresponding bit of the TC Select 
field in the Route Entry set to 1, and
— The packet does not match any other Route Entry within the chiplet.
If a packet on the Management Fabric of a chiple t matches the route specified by the Route Entry, 
then the packet is transmitted out the Management Port associated with the Route Entry. The virtual 
channel used by the packet is specified by the VC ID field in the matching Route Entry.
Route Entries associated with the Management Ports on either side of a point-to-point link that 
interconnects two chiplets may be configured differ ently. This means that the TC-to-VC mapping in 
each direction on the link may be different.
Figure 8-16. Route Entry
Table 8-13. Route Entry Fields (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 8 RORoute Entry Version
This field indicates the version of the Route Entry.Must be 0h in this version of the specification
VC ID 0 [10:8] 8 RWVirtual Channel ID
This field selects the Virtual Channel (VC) used by packets 
that match this Route Entry.
The default value of this field is 0 which maps all selected 
traffic classes onto VC0.
RT 0 [15] 8 RWRoute Type
This field selects the routing type of this Route Entry.0: Normal Route
1: Default Route
The default value of this field is 0.TC Select31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Reserved
Base ID Limit IDVC ID Ver RT Reserved DWORD 0
DWORD 1
--- Page 31 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 315
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.3 Access Control Capability Structure
A Management Entity must support the access control mechanism outlined in Section 8.1.3.5  and 
must implement the Access Control Capability Structure described in this section. The Access Control 
Capability Structure provides access to the Read Access Control (RAC) and Write Access Control 
(WAC) structures associated with asset classes contained in the Management Entity.
The organization of the Access Contro l Capability Structure is shown in Figure 8-17 . It consists of a 
10-DWORD header that contains a pointer to the standard asset class access table and the vendor 
defined asset class access table.TC Select 0 [31:24] 8 RWTraffic Class Select
This field selects which traffic classes may match this 
Route Entry. A packet’s traffic class is specified Traffic 
Classes (TC) in the packet header.
Each bit in this field corresponds to a traffic class (i.e., bit 0 
corresponds to TC0, bit 1 to TC1,  and so on). If a bit in this 
field is set to 0, then packets with the associated traffic 
class are filtered out from matching the route specified by 
the Route Entry. If a bit in this field is set to 1, then packets with the associated traffic class are considered for 
matching the route specified by the Route Entry.
The default value of this field is 0 which filters out all traffic 
classes.
Base ID 1 [15:0] 8 RW/ROBase ID
This field contains the Base ID value of the Chiplet ID 
associated with this Route Entry.
This field contains a 16-bit Management Network ID. The 
Management Network ID is pa rtitioned into a Chiplet ID 
field in the upper bits and an Entity ID field in the lower 
bits (see Section 8.1.3.2 ).
The lower bits of this field associated with the Entity ID 
portion of the Management Network ID are hardwired to 0 
(i.e., RO). Since bits 0 and 1 are only associated with an Entity ID, they are always hardwired to zero.
The upper bits of this field associated with the Chiplet ID 
portion of the Management Network ID may be read and 
written (i.e., RW). These upper bits must be initialized with 
the Chiplet ID value associated with the Base ID. The initial 
value of these upper bits is all ones (i.e., 1).
Limit ID 1 [31:16] 8 RWLimit ID
This field contains the Limit ID value of the Chiplet ID 
associated with this Route Entry.
This field contains a 16-bit Management Network ID. The 
Management Network ID is pa rtitioned into a Chiplet ID 
field in the upper bits and an Entity ID field in the lower bits (see Section 8.1.3.2 ).
The lower bits of this field associated with the Entity ID 
portion of the Management Network ID are hardwired to 0 
(i.e., RO).
The upper bits of this field associated with the Chiplet ID 
portion of the Management Network ID may be read and written (i.e., RW). These upper bits must be initialized with 
the Chiplet ID value associated with the Base ID. The initial 
value of these upper bits is all 0s.
If the Base ID is greater than  the Limit ID, then the Route 
Entry is disabled.
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Table 8-13. Route Entry Fields (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 32 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 316
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 The standard and vendor defined asset access class tables consists of a sequence of 128-bit (4-
DWORD) RAC and 128-bit (4-DWORD) WAC structure pairs. The number of RAC/WAC structure pairs 
in the standard asset class access table is equal to 26 (i.e., the number of standard asset class IDs) 
and the number of RAC/WAC structure pairs in the vendor defined asset class access table corresponds to the number of vendor defined asset classes. The fields in the 4-DWORD RAC and WAC 
structures are described in Table 8-15  and Table 8-16 , respectively.
Figure 8-17. Access Contro l Capability Structure
Table 8-14. Access Control Capability  Structure Fields (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROCapability Structure Version
This field indicates the version of this capability structure.This field has a value of 00h in this specification.
Max Security 
Clearance Group Supported0 [14:8] 17 ROMax Security Clearance Group Supported
This field specifies the maxi mum security clearance group 
value supported.
A value of N in this field indicates that security clearance 
group values 0 through N are supported.
If this capability structure is implemented, then security 
clearance group 0 must be supported.
If the number of security clearance groups is not 
restricted, then N is equal to 127.
Management 
Capability ID0 [29:16] 17 ROManagement Capability ID
This field specifies the Capability ID of this Management 
Capability Structure.
The Access Control Capability Structure has a Management 
Capability ID of 001h.
Standard Asset 
Class Supported1 [25:0] 17 ROStandard Asset Class Supported
Each bit in this field represents an asset class ID (see 
Table 8-5  and Table 8-7 ).
If a bit in this field is set to 1, then the asset class 
corresponding to the asset cla ss ID represented by the bit 
is supported.
If a bit in this field is set to 0, then the asset class 
corresponding to the asset cla ss ID represented by the bit 
is not supported.31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Ver Management Capability ID DWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3Reserved
ReservedMax Security
Clearance Group Supported
Standard Asset Class Supported
Standard Asset Class Access Table Low
Standard Asset Class Access Table HighDWORD 4
DWORD 5
DWORD 6
DWORD 7Reserved
Vendor Specific Asset Class Access Table Low
Vendor Specific Asset Class Access Table HighDWORD 8
DWORD 9Number of Vendor Specific Asset ClassesRsvd Rsvd
Reserved
--- Page 33 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 317
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Number of Vendor 
Defined Asset 
Classes4 [31:0] 17 RONumber of Vendor Defined Asset Classes
This field indicates the number of vendor defined asset 
classes.
A value of all 0s in this field indicates that no vendor 
defined asset classes are supported.
Standard Asset 
Class Access 
Table Low6 [31:0] 17 ROStandard Asset Class Access Table Low
Bits 0 to 31 of the 64-bit address of the base address of 
the Standard Asset Class Table. Because the Standard Asset Class Access Table must be DWORD-aligned, bits 0 
and 1 must be 00b.
Standard Asset 
Class Access Table High7 [31:0] 17 ROStandard Asset Class Access Table High
Bits 32 to 63 of the 64-bit address of the base address of 
the Standard Asset Class Table.
Vendor Defined 
Asset Class 
Access Table Low8 [31:0] 17 ROVendor Defined Asset Class Access Table Low
Bits 0 to 31 of the 64-bit address of the base address of 
the Vendor Defined Asset Class Table. Because the Vendor 
Defined Asset Class Access Table must be DWORD-aligned, 
bits 0 and 1 must be 00b.
A value of zero in the Vendor Defined Asset Class Access 
Table Low and High fields indicates that there is no Vendor Defined Asset Class Access Table.
Vendor Defined 
Asset Class 
Access Table High9 [31:0] 17 ROVendor Defined Asset Class Access Table High
Bits 32 to 63 of the 64-bit address of the base address of 
the Vendor Defined Asset Class Table.
A value of zero in the Vendor Defined Asset Class Access 
Table Low and High fields indicates that there is no Vendor 
Defined Asset Class Access Table.
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Table 8-14. Access Control Capability  Structure Fields (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 34 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 318
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-18. Standard Asset Class Access Table
DWORD 0
WAC0DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4
DWORD 5
DWORD 6
DWORD 7
RAC25
WAC25DWORD 200
DWORD 201
DWORD 202
DWORD 203
DWORD 204
DWORD 205
DWORD 206
DWORD 207......31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
RAC0
--- Page 35 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 319
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-19. Vendor Define d Asset Class Access Table
WAC0
RACx*
WACx*DWORD 8x
DWORD 8x+1
DWORD 8x+2
DWORD 8x+3
DWORD 8x+4
DWORD 8x+5
DWORD 8x+6
DWORD 8x+7......31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
RAC0DWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4
DWORD 5
DWORD 6
DWORD 7
* The x in RACx/WACx corresponds to the number of vendor specific asset classes minus one (i.e., the
first vendor specific asset class corresponds to RAC0/WAC0,  the second vendor specific asset class
corresponds to RAC1/WAC1, and so on).
--- Page 36 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 320
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-15. Read Access Control (RAC) Structure Field Description
Field NameDWORDa & 
Bit Location
a. DWORD in this table refers to the DWORD offset into asset class access table for RACx. For example, the 128-bit RAC2 structur e
is at DWORD offsets 16, 17, 18, and 19.Standard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDb
b. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
RACx_SD 8x [0] 0 RW/RORead Access Control Security Director
This bit provides access control for the Security Director.
If this bit is 1, then Security Director read accesses to 
assets in the Management Entity of the type associated 
with this RAC structure are allowed. If this bit is 0, then 
Security Director read accesses to assets in the Management Entity of the type associated with this RAC 
structure are not allowed.
The initial value of this bit is 1.
If the Management Entity contains no assets associated 
with the access class corresponding to this RAC structure, 
then this field is hardwired to 0.
RACx_LL 8x [31:1] 0 RW/RORead Access Control Lower Lower
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 1 through 31. Bit x corresponds to Security Clearance Group x.
If a bit is 1, then read accesses with the corresponding 
clearance group to assets in the Management Entity of the 
type associated with this RAC structure are allowed. If this 
bit is 0, then read accesses with the corresponding clearance group to assets in the Management Entity of the 
type associated with this RAC structure are not allowed.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
If the Management Entity contains no assets associated 
with the access class corresponding to this RAC structure, 
then this field is hardwired to 0.
If the Management Entity do es not support the security 
clearance group associated with a bit in this field, then the 
bit is hardwired to 0.
RACx_LM 8x+1 [31:0] 0 RW/RORead Access Control Lower Middle
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 32 through 63. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 32).
See RACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
RACx_UM 8x+2 [31:0] 0 RW/RORead Access Control Upper Middle
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 64 through 95. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 64).
See RACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
RACx_UU 8x+3 [31:0] 0 RW/RORead Access Control Upper Upper
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 96 through 127. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 96).
See RACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
--- Page 37 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 321
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-16. Write Access Control (W AC) Structure Field Description
Field NameDWORDa & 
Bit Location 
a. DWORD in this table refers to the DWORD offset into asset class access table for WACx. For example, the 128-bit WAC2 structur e
is at DWORD offsets 20, 21, 22, and 23.Standard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDb
b. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
WACx_SD 8x+4 [0] 0 RWWrite Access Control Security Director
This bit provides access control for the Security Director.
If this bit is 1, then Security Director write accesses to 
assets in the Management Entity of the type associated 
with this WAC structure are allo wed. If this bit is 0, then 
Security Director write accesses to assets in the Management Entity of the type associated with this WAC 
structure are not allowed.
The initial value of this bit is 1.
If the Management Entity contains no assets associated 
with the access class corresponding to this WAC structure, 
then this field is hardwired to 0.
WACx_LL 8x+4 [31:1] 0 RWWrite Access Control Lower Lower
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 1 through 31. Bit x corresponds to Security Clearance Group x.
If a bit is 1, then write accesses with the corresponding 
clearance group to assets in the Management Entity of the 
type associated with this WAC structure are allowed. If this 
bit is 0, then write accesses with the corresponding clearance group to assets in the Management Entity of the 
type associated with this WAC structure are not allowed.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
If the Management Entity contains no assets associated 
with the access class corresponding to this WAC structure, 
then this field is hardwired to 0.
If the Management Entity do es not support the security 
clearance group associated with a bit in this field, then the 
bit is hardwired to 0.
WACx_LM 8x+5 [31:0] 0 RWWrite Access Control Lower Middle
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 32 through 63. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 32).
See WACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
WACx_UM 8x+6 [31:0] 0 RWWrite Access Control Upper Middle
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 64 through 95. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 64).
See WACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
WACx_UU 8x+7 [31:0] 0 RWWrite Access Control Upper Upper
This field provides access control for Security Clearance 
Groups 96 through 127. Bit x corresponds to Security 
Clearance Group (x + 96).
See WACx_LL  for a description of this field.
The initial value of each bit in this field is 0.
--- Page 38 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 322
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.4 Security Clearance Group Capability Structure
The Security Clearance Group Capability Structure allows a Security Director to configure the Security 
Clearance Group value used by a Management Entity when issuing Management Transport requests. This capability structure must be implemented by a Management Entity that is the ultimate source of 
UCIe Management Transport request packets (i.e., em its request packets) and is not required to be 
implemented by any other Management Entity.
In some cases, a Management Entity may need to issue requests with different Security Clearance 
Group values when operating in different contexts. The Security Clearance Group Capability Structure 
supports multiple Security Clearance Group Contexts to allow a Security Director to configure a 
Security Clearance Group value for each context. How a Security Director determines the 
manageability functions provided by these contexts  and what Security Clea rance Group value should 
be used is beyond the scope of this specification.
Figure 8-20. Security Clearanc e Group Capability Structure
Table 8-17. Security Clearance Gr oup Capability Structure Fields
Field NameDWORD & 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDa
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROCapability Structure Version
This field indicates the version of this capability structure.
This field has a value of 00h in this specification.
Management 
Capability ID0 [29:16] 17 ROManagement Capability ID
This field specifies the Capability ID of this Management 
Capability Structure.
The Security Clearance Group Capability Structure has a 
Management Capability ID of 004h.
Num Security 
Clearance Group 
Contexts1 [7:0] 17 RONumber of Security Clearance Group Contexts
This field indicates the number of Security Clearance Group 
Contexts associated with this Management Entity. The 
number of Security Clearance Groups Contexts associated with this Management Entity is equal to the value in this 
field plus 1.
A Management Entity that implements this capability 
structure must have at least one Security Clearance Group 
Context.31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Num Security Clearance Group 
ContextsReserved
Security Clearance Group ContextsVer Management Capability ID Reserved
ReservedDWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4
...Rsvd
Reserved
--- Page 39 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 323
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.3.6.4.1 Security Clearance Group Context
8.1.4 UCIe Memory Access Protocol
The UCIe Memory Access Protocol provides read and write access to memory mapped structures and 
memory associated with a Management Entity that supports the UCIe Memory Access Protocol. A 
Management Entity exposes a 64-bit address space. The relationship of this address space to a 
system or I/O address map is beyond the scope of this specification.
The address space associated with a Management Enti ty may be local to that Management Entity or 
shared across one or more Management Entities in a chiplet. For example, the same address in two 
Management Entities may reference the same memory location or different memory locations (e.g., a 
memory location associated with each Management  Entity). A Management Entity may have some 
addresses that are local and some that are shared . For shared addresses, how concurrent accesses, 
security, and mutual exclusion are handled is beyond the scope of this specification.
The UCIe Memory Access Protocol utilizes the UCIe  Management Transport access control mechanism 
(see Section 8.1.3.5 ).Figure 8-21. Security Clearance Group Context
Table 8-18. Security Clearance Group Context Fields
Field NameDWORD& 
Bit LocationStandard 
Security 
Asset Class 
IDa
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Attribute Description
Security Clearance 
Group0 [6:0] 0 RWSecurity Clearance Group
This field is configured by th e Security Director with the 
Security Clearance Group value used by the Management 
Entity when issuing a request.
The initial value of this field is 7Fh if this context is not 
associated with a Security Director. The initial value of this field is 00h if this context is associated with a Security 
Director.
En 0 [31] 0 RWRequest Enable
When this field is set to 1 the Management Entity may 
issue requests associated with this security clearance group context.
When this field is set to 0 the Management Entity must 
not issue requests associated with this security clearance 
group context.
The initial value of this field is 0 if this context is not 
associated with a Security Director. The initial value of this 
field is 1 if this context is associated with a Security Director.31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
ReservedReserved DWORD 0
DWORD 1Security Clearance Group En
--- Page 40 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 324
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.4.1 UCIe Memory Access Protocol Packets
This section describes UCIe Memory Access Protocol  packets. These packets are carried by the UCIe 
management transport.
8.1.4.1.1 UCIe Memory Request Packet
Memory request packets are issued by a Manageme nt Entity to read or write memory mapped 
structures or memory in another Management entity. The Opcode field indicates the type of operation. 
When a UCIe Management Transport packet carries a UCIe Memory Request, the Resp field is set to 0 
corresponding to a request packet.
UCIe Memory Request packet operations are non- posted. If a UCIe Management Transport packet 
that carries a UCIe Memory Request packet is not discarded, then a UCIe Memory Response packet is 
sent in response.
A Management Entity may issue requests on an ordered or unordered traffic class when the 
Unordered Traffic Class Enable (UE) bit is set to 1 in the UCIe Memory Access Protocol capability 
structure. When the UE bit is cleared to 0, then th e Management Entity may only issue requests on an 
ordered traffic class and must not issue requests on an unordered traffic class. Whether a 
Management Entity utilizes an unordered traffic class is implementation specific.
The Tag field in a UCIe Memory Request packet is an  8-bit field populated by the requester, carried in 
a request packet, and returned by the responder in  the corresponding response packet if one is 
generated. A requester may have mu ltiple outstanding requests with the same Tag field value to the 
same or different responders. The responder must not assume that Tag field values are unique and 
must not in any way interpret the Tag field value. Th e use of the Tag field is requester implementation 
specific and may be used for applications such as  mapping responses to previously issued requests; 
determining the responder associated with a resp onse packet; and detecting lost, dropped, or 
discarded packets.
The maximum number of requests that a requester may have outstanding is requester 
implementation specific.
Figure 8-22  shows the fields of a UCIe Memory Access Request packet. Reserved fields (i.e., ones 
labeled as Rsvd) must be filled with all 0s when the packet is formed. Reserved fields must be 
forwarded unmodified on the Management Network an d ignored by receivers. An implementation that 
relies on the value of a reserved field in a packet is non-compliant.
Figure 8-22. UCIe Memory Access Request Packet Format
First DW BE
Address[63:32]Rsvd Length Last DW BE Opcode Tag
Data (Optional)7654 1 32+1
0 7654 1 32+0
0 7654 1 32+3
0 7654 1 32+2
0
DWORD 3
DWORD 4DWORD 5DWORD 2
DWORD MProtocol
Specific
...Address[31:2]RsvdIPA
--- Page 41 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 325
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 8-19  defines the fields of a UCIe Memory Access Request packet. The packet starts at DWORD 2 
because DWORDs 0 and 1 contain the UCIe Management Transport packet header. All fields in the 
table have little endian bit ordering, similar to Figure 8-5  (e.g., Address bits 32 through 39 are in Byte 
3 bits 7 through 0 of DWORD 3, and Address bits 40 through 47 are in Byte 2 bits 7 through 0 of DWORD 2 and so on).
Table 8-19. UCIe Memory Access Request Packet Fields
Field Name Field Size Description
Tag 8 bitsTag
This field contains the value of the tag field of the corresponding memory access 
request.
First DW BE 4 bitsFirst Data DWORD Byte Enable
This field contains byte enables for the first (or only) DWORD referenced.
A value of 0 indicates that the correspondin g byte is not enabled and a value of 1 
indicates that the corresp onding byte is enabled.
Bit 0 corresponds to Byte 0.Bit 1 corresponds to Byte 1.
Bit 2 corresponds to Byte 2.
Bit 3 corresponds to Byte 3.
Last DW BE 4 bitsLast Data DWORD Byte Enable
This field contains byte enables for the la st DWORD referenced. If the LENGTH field 
has a value of 0, then this field must be 0000b.
A value of 0 indicates that the correspondin g byte is not enabled and a value of 1 
indicates that the corresp onding byte is enabled.
Bit 0 corresponds to Byte 0.Bit 1 corresponds to Byte 1.
Bit 2 corresponds to Byte 2.
Bit 3 corresponds to Byte 3.
Length 8 bitsData Length
This field indicates the length of data referenced in DWORDs.The length of the packet in DWORDs is equal to the value of this field plus 1 (e.g., a 
value of 00h in this field indicates a packet length of one DWORD, a value of 01h in this field indicates a packet length of two DWORDs, and so on).
Opcode 4 bitsOpcode
This field indicates the memory access request operation.
0000b: Reserved (used for responses)0001b: Memory Read (MemRd)0010b: Memory Write (MemWr)
Others: Reserved
Address 62 bitsAddress
This field contains the DWORD address being referenced in the Management Entity.
IPA 1 bitIgnore Prohibited Access
This bit indicates whether accesses to prohibited assets should be ignored. When 
access to a prohibited asset is ignored, the asset is not accessed but the request 
completes successfully. The value of this bit is determined by the requester and 
should not be set to 1 during normal operation because doing so would cause access 
violations to not be reported in the Response Status.
0: Do not ignore access to prohibited assets
1: Ignore accesses to prohibited assets
Data VariesData
This field is present in Memory Write requ ests and contains the data being written. 
This field is not present in Memory Read requests.
--- Page 42 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 326
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.1.4.1.2 UCIe Memory Access Response Packet
A UCIe Memory Access Response packet is generate d by a Management Entity when the processing 
associated with a UCIe Memory Access Request packet completes. When a UCIe Management 
Transport packet carries a UCIe Memory Response, the Resp field is set to 1 corresponding to a 
response packet.
A UCIe Memory Access Protocol responder must alwa ys support UCIe Memory Request packets on all 
traffic classes (TC). The traffic class of a UCIe Memory Access Response packet is the same as the 
traffic class used in the corresponding UCIe Memory Access Request packet.
As described in Section 8.1.3.1.1 , each traffic class is a unique ordering domain. There are no 
ordering guarantees for UCIe Memory Requ est packets in different traffic classes.
Within an ordered traffic class, UCIe Memory Request packets are delivered in-order between a 
requester and a responder and UCIe Memory Resp onse packets are delivered in-order between a 
responder and the requester. There are no orderi ng guarantees between requests to different 
responders and there are no ordering guarantees between responses from different responders to a 
requester. Within an unordered traffic class there are no packet ordering guarantees and the packets 
may be delivered in any order.
A Management Entity may process received UCIe Memory Request packets sequentially (i.e., one at a 
time) or concurrently (i.e., two or more at a ti me). There are no ordering requirements between 
requests in different traffic classes; however, the result of processing these requests must be 
equivalent to some sequential processing of requests performed in an atomic manner.
Regardless of whether UCIe Memory Request packets are associated with an ordered or an unordered 
traffic class, a responder may send UCIe Memory  Access Response Packets out-of-order (i.e., a 
responder is not required to send response packet s in the same order that the corresponding request 
packets were received by the responder). This mean s that responses may be received by a requester 
in an order different from the order in whic h the requests were sent by the requester.
The Status field in a UCIe Memory Access Response packet indicates the status associated with 
processing the corresponding UCIe Memory Access Request packet. If a UCIe Memory Access Request 
packet is processed successfully, then a UCIe Memory Access Response packet is generated with status Success. If the request requires response data , then all the data associated with the successful 
response is contained in a single response packet.
If a Management Entity receives a well formed UCIe Management Transport packet, but the UCIe 
Memory Access Request packet is malformed, then no processing of the request occurs and a 
response with no data and status Packet Error is returned.
• Examples of a malformed UCIe Memory Access Request packet:
— Receipt of a UCIe Memory Access Request packet with a reserved value in the Opcode field.— Receipt of a UCIe Memory Access Request packet with the Length field set to zero and the 
Last DW BE field set to a nonzero value.IMPLEMENTATION NOTE — R ESPONSES  IN AN ORDERED  TRAFFIC  CLASS
Because responders are free to send resp onse packets for the UCIe Memory Access 
protocol in any order, an implementation  may reorder these responses when carried 
in an ordered traffic class. While this conflicts with the ordered traffic class 
requirements, a requester cannot tell wh ether this reordering occurred at the 
responder or in the ordered traffic class of the Management Network.
--- Page 43 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 327
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 If a request violates the programming model of a Management Entity, then the request is not 
performed and a response with no data and status Programming Model Violation is returned.
• Examples of programming model violations:
— Unless otherwise specified all UCIe defined structures must be accessed as DWORDs.
If a Management Entity receives a request, is not capable of processing the request, but will be able 
to process the request at some point in the future, then a response with no data and status Retry 
Request is returned. The Retry Request status sh ould not be used during normal operation and 
implementations are strongly encouraged to only use the Retry Status when absolutely necessary. 
How long a requester waits after re ceiving a response with status Retry Request before reissuing the 
request is implementation specific. The Max Retry Ti me Units and Max Retry Time Value fields in the 
UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure report the maximum duration of time during which 
a Management Entity may return a response with status Retry Request. A requester may use this 
time duration to determine how long to poll a responder before declaring that the responder has 
malfunctioned.
If the Management Entity can process a request, the request does not contain an error, and the 
request attempts to access an asset that is proh ibited, then the asset is not accessed, and no 
processing associated with the request occurs.
• If the Ignore Prohibited Access (IPA) bit in the re quest is cleared to 0, then a response with no 
data and a status of Access Denied is returned.
• If the Ignore Prohibited Access (IPA) bit in the requ est is set to 1, then the required response data 
with all values set to zero and status Success is  returned. The purpose of this is to allow an 
address range to be probed without returning errors.
The read of a byte whose corresponding byte enable is 0 in the First DW BE or Last DW BE field should 
return a value of FFh.
IMPLEMENTATION NOTE — R EAD VALUE RETURNED  
ON UNUSED  BYTE LANES
If a Management Entity receives a UCIe Memory Access Request packet with a byte 
enable value of 0 in the First DW BE or Last DW BE field and does not return a value 
of FFh for the byte in the corresponding response, then care must be exercised to 
ensure that the data returned in unused bytes does not create a security issue. Implementations are strongly encouraged to align secure information on DWORD or 
larger boundaries.
--- Page 44 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 328
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-23  shows the fields of a UCIe Memory Access Response packet. Reserved fields (i.e., ones 
labeled as Rsvd) must be filled with 0s when the packet is formed. Reserved fields must be forwarded 
unmodified on the Management Network and ignored by  receivers. An implementation that relies on 
the value of a reserved field in a packet is non-compliant.
Table 8-20  defines the fields of a UCIe Memory Access Response packet. The packet starts at DWORD 
2 because DWORDs 0 and 1 contain the UCIe Management Transport packet header. All fields in the 
table have little endian bit ordering (e.g., Tag bit 0 is in DWORD 3 bit 0, and Tag bit 7 is in DWORD 3 
bit 7).
8.1.4.2 UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure
A Management Entity that implements the UCIe Memory Access Protocol must implement the UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure described in this section.
The Max Buffered Requests field reports the maxi mum number of requests that the Management 
Entity is guaranteed to buffer. Issuing more outsta nding requests to the Management Entity than this 
maximum may result in head-of-line blocking in  the chiplet Management Fabric and/or a VC 
associated with a Management Port between chiplets.Figure 8-23. UCIe Memory  Access Response Packet
Table 8-20. UCIe Memory Acce ss Response Packet Fields
Field Name Field Size Description
Opcode 4 bitsOpcode
This field must be set to 0000b.
Status 3 bitsResponse Status
This field indicates the memory access response status.
000b: Success (SUCCESS)
001b: Programming Model Violation (PMV)010b: Retry Request (RR)
011b: Access Denied (AD)
100b: Packet Error (PERR)Others: Reserved
Tag 8 bitsTag
This field contains the value of the tag field of the corresponding memory access 
request.
Data VariesData
If the memory access request was a Memory Read that was processed successfully 
(i.e., the Response Status field contains Success), then this field contains the data 
read. This field is not present in Memory Write completions.Rsvd Rsvd Status Tag
Data (Optional)7654 1 32+1
0 7654 1 32+0
0 7654 1 32+3
0 7654 1 32+2
0
Opcode
DWORD 3DWORD 2
DWORD MProtocol
Specific
...
--- Page 45 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 329
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 The Request Buffer Size field reports the sum of the size of the requests that the Management Entity 
is guaranteed to buffer. Issuing more outstanding re quests to the Management Entity than will fit in 
this buffer may result in head-of-line blocking in the chiplet Management Fabric and/or a VC 
associated with a Management Port between chiplets.
The Max Response Time Units and Max Response Time Value fields report the expected maximum 
time that the Management Entity requires to proc ess a request. This is the expected maximum time 
with no other outstanding requests from rece ipt of a UCIe Memory Request packet at the 
Management Entity to the Management Entity em itting a corresponding UCIe Memory Response 
packet.
The UCIe Management Access Protocol does not defi ne an architected completion timeout mechanism 
to detect lost packets or hardware failures; howe ver, a requester may use the time reported in Max 
Response Time Units and Max Response Time Value fields in this capability structure to implement a vendor defined completion timeout mechanism.  When a completion timeout mechanism is 
implemented, the requester must not declare a completion timeout sooner than the expected 
maximum response time reported by Response Time Units and Response Time Value fields.
Figure 8-24. UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure
Table 8-21. UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure Fields (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & Bit 
LocationStandard 
Security Asset 
Class IDaAttribute Description
Ver 0 [7:0] 17 ROCapability Structure Version
This field indicates the version of this 
capability structure.
This field has a value of 00h in this 
specification.
Management 
Capability ID0 [29:16] 17 ROManagement Capability ID
This field specifies the Capability ID of this 
Management Capability Structure.
The UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability 
Structure has a Management Capability ID of 002h.
Max Response 
Time Units1 [3:0] 17 ROMaximum Response Time Units
This field indicates the units associated with 
the Max Response Time Value field.
0000b: Reserved
0001b: nanoseconds (ns)0010b: microseconds (us)
0011b: milliseconds (ms)
0100b: seconds (s)Others: Reserved31+0
30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0+1 +2 +3
Ver Management Capability ID Reserved DWORD 0
DWORD 1
DWORD 2
DWORD 3
DWORD 4RsvdMax Response 
Time UnitsMax Response Time Value Max Buffered Requests Reserved
Reserved
ReservedRsvd
Requests Buffer Size
Max Retry
Time UnitsMax Retry Time Value
UE
--- Page 46 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 330
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Max Response 
Time Value1 [13:4] 17 ROMaximum Response Time Value
This field indicates the expected maximum 
response time value. The units associated 
with this value are specified by the Max 
Response Time Units field.
Maximum 
Buffered 
Requests1 [23:16] 17 ROMaximum Number of Buffered Requests
This field reports the maximum number of 
requests that the Management Entity can 
buffer.
Requests that the Management Entity are 
currently processing are considered buffered 
request.
A value of zero in this field indicates that the 
maximum number of buffered requests is not reported.
Request 
Buffer Size2 [31:0] 17 RORequest Buffer Size
This field reports the size of the 
Management Entity request buffer in 
DWORDs. The number of DWORDs consumed by a request packet in this buffer 
is equal to the value specified by the Length 
field in the UCIe Management Transport packet header. A request packet that the 
Management Entity is currently processing 
consumes space in this buffer.
A value of all 0s in this field indicates that 
the size of the request buffer is not reported.
Max Retry 
Time Units3 [3:0] 17 ROMaximum Retry Time Units
This field indicates the units associated with 
the Max Retry Time Value field.
0000b: Reserved
0001b: nanoseconds (ns)0010b: microseconds (us)
0011b: milliseconds (ms)
0100b: seconds (s)Others: Reserved
Max Retry 
Time Value3 [13:4] 17 ROMaximum Retry Time Value
This field indicates the maximum duration of 
time during which a Management Entity may 
return a response with status Retry Request 
(i.e., maximum retry time).
A value of 000h in this field indicates that 
the maximum retry time value is not reported.
UE 4 [0] 16 RWUnordered Traffic Class Enable
When this field is set to 1 the Management 
Entity may issue UCIe Memory Access 
protocol requests on an ordered or unordered traffic class.
When this field is set to 0 the Management 
Entity may only issue requests on an 
ordered traffic class and must not issue 
requests on an unordered traffic class.
The initial value of this field is 0 in all 
Management Entities except the Management Director. The initial value of 
this field is 1 in the Management Director.
a. See Table 8-7  for a description of Standard Security Asset Class IDs.Table 8-21. UCIe Memory Access Protocol Capability Structure Fields (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field NameDWORD & Bit 
LocationStandard 
Security Asset 
Class IDaAttribute Description
--- Page 47 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 331
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2 Management Transport Pa cket (MTP) Encapsulation
8.2.1 MTP Encapsulation Architecture Overview
Management Transport Packet (MTP) is the message used for management-related functionality on a 
management network in UCIe-based chiplets (see Section 8.1.1  for details). This section deals with 
how MTPs are sent/received over UCIe Sideband and Mainband links through the process of 
Encapsulation. All Management Ports (as defined in Section 8.1.2 ) in a chiplet must support 
Encapsulation. Chiplet support for Management Port on a UCIe sideband link or a UCIe mainband link 
are independently optional, subject to rules stated in Section 8.1.2 . When Management Port is 
supported on a UCIe link (sideband or mainband) the management path on the link is setup as 
described in Section 8.2.3.1  for sideband and Section 8.2.3.2  for mainband. After the management 
path is set up on a link, the Encapsulated MTPs can be sent and received. Throughout this document 
the term Management Port Messages (MPM) is used to refer to all Sideband and Mainband messages 
that relate to Encapsulation. For the Sideba nd interface, these messages are defined in Table 7-1 . For 
the mainband, these messages are defined in Table 8-22  and a “Management Flit” is defined (see 
Table 3-4  and Table 3-5 ) to carry these messages.
See Figure 8-25  and Figure 8-26  for a high-level view of the MTP transport path over UCIe sideband 
and mainband respectively. In th is architecture, MTPs are transp orted between Management Port 
Gateways (MPGs) on each end of the UCIe link usin g either the sideband or the mainband path. In 
this context, an MPG is an entity that provides the bridging functionality when transporting an MTP 
from/to a local SoC management fabric (which is an SoC-specific implementation) to/from a UCIe 
link. The MPG has credited buffers for receiving MTPs (called RxQ) from the link and their sizes are 
exchanged during initial link training. These credited  buffers are separately maintained for Sideband 
and Mainband paths when management transport is  supported on both. Up to eight VCs can be 
supported on a Management Port. Dedicated buffering is required for each VC negotiated. Support for 
VC0 is mandatory when management transport is  negotiated, and all other VCs are optional.
--- Page 48 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 332
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-25. UCIe Sideband Ma nagement Path Architecturea b
a. Configuration interface (i.e., pl_cfg_*  and lp_cfg_*  signals) described in Table 10-1 .
b. Configuration interface (i.e., pl_cfg_*  and lp_cfg_*  signals) described in Table 10-1  plus extensions
described in Table 10-3 .MTP
Rx/Tx
Queues
PHYD2D Adapter
MPG MuxCfg1
Cfg2• Separate credits for 
Link Management packets/messages vs. 
Management Transport messages
• Credit per UCIe SidebandDie A
RDISeparate credits per 
Sideband/VC/Req/Resp
Any, some, or all the Sideband links in multi-
module config can be used for Management Transport
MTP
Rx/TxQueuesPHY
D2D AdapterMPG Mux
Cfg1Cfg2Die B
RDIManagement Port GatewayModule 0Module 3
Module 1Module 2
Management Port Gateway
--- Page 49 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 333
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-26. UCIe Mainband Management Path Architecture
PHYD2D AdapterMTP
Rx/Tx
QueuesDie A
RDISeparate credits per 
Stack/VC/Req/RspMPG MuxProtocol
(CXL.io, PCIe, Streaming)
FDI
FDI
PHY
D2D Adapter
MTP
Rx/Tx
QueuesDie B
RDI
Separate credits per 
Stack/VC/Req/Rsp
MPG Mux
FDI
Protocol
(CXL.io, PCIe, Streaming)FDIManagement Port Gateway
Management Port GatewayModule 0Module 3
Module 1Module 2
--- Page 50 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 334
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 In multi-module or multi-sideband-only link configur ations, any, some or all of up to four sideband 
links can be used for transporting MTPs. Unless stated otherwise, any references to sideband 
management port behavior/requirements/rules for a multi-module configuration also apply to a multi-
sideband-only link configuration. In multi-stack ma inband configurations, any or both stacks can be 
used for transporting MTPs. Ordering is still ma intained when transporting packets on multiple 
sideband links/multiple stacks and this is described in Section 8.2.4.3 . Because MTPs can be large (up 
to 2K payload) and can block the sideband link fo r regular link management traffic (as described in 
Table 7-1  except opcodes 10111b and 11000b), there is a mechanism provided to periodically 
arbitrate the link between link management packets/messages and MPMs over the sideband link. Additionally, to allow management path over side band (when supported) to operate independent of 
mainband link status (which is required for certain management use cases such as FW download), 
UCIe link state machine supports sending/receivin g management packets over sideband in all link 
states including RESET (see Chapter 4.0  for details).
In Figure 8-25  and Figure 8-26 , the location of the Management Port Gateway mux is shown for 
reference purposes only. Implementations can choose to locate the mux elsewhere (e.g., above FDI for sideband path) and details of such implementations are beyond the scope of this specification. 
Interface definitions for this architecture, seen in Chapter 10.0 , and other details discussed around 
Management Port Gateway integration are with resp ect to this reference Management Port Gateway 
mux placement.
The Management Port Gateway interfaces to th e D2D Adapter by way of the FDI for mainband 
transport as shown in Figure 8-26 , and FDI is described in Chapter 10.0 . The Management Port 
Gateway can also connect directly to D2D by way of the FDI. Supported configurations of 
Management Port Gateway connectivity to D2D are shown in Figure 8-27 .
The terminology used throughout this chapter wi ll be in reference to the concepts shown in 
Figure 8-25  and Figure 8-26 . In case of CXL protocol, the Management Port Gateway mux is on the 
CXL.io FDI.
--- Page 51 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 335
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.2 Management Port Messages
8.2.2.1 Sideband
There are currently two MPM opcodes defined as shown in Table 7-1, “Opcode Encodings Mapped to 
Packet Types” . See Section 7.1.2.4  for more information.Figure 8-27. Supported Configurations fo r Management Port Gateway Connectivity 
to D2D Adapter on Mainband
D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/TxQueues
MPG MuxFDI
Stack XStack X Protocol 
(PCIe or Streaming)
FDIManagement Port Gateway
D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/Tx
Queues MPG MuxFDI
Stack X
FDIManagement Port Gateway
MPG MuxFDI
Stack Y
D2D AdapterMTPRx/TxQueues
Stack X
FDIManagement Port GatewayD2D AdapterMTP
Rx/Tx
Queues MPG MuxFDI
Stack X
FDIManagement Port GatewayStack YStack X Protocol 
(PCIe or Streaming)Stack Y Protocol 
(PCIe or Streaming)
Stack X Protocol 
(PCIe or Streaming)
Stack Y Protocol 
(CXL or PCIe or Streaming)
D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/TxQueues
Stack X
FDIManagement Port GatewayStack YStack Y Protocol 
(CXL or PCIe or Streaming)D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/Tx
Queues MPG MuxFDI
Stack XStack X Protocol CXL.io1 
FDIManagement Port Gateway
D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/TxQueues
MPG MuxFDI
Stack X
FDIManagement Port Gateway
MPG MuxFDI
Stack YStack X Protocol CXL.io Stack Y Protocol CXL.io
Stack X
ARB/MUXStack X Protocol CXL.cachemem
ARB/MUX ARB/MUXStack YStack Y Protocol 
CXL.cachememStack X Protocol 
CXL.cachemem
D2D AdapterMTP
Rx/Tx
Queues MPG MuxFDI
Stack X
FDIManagement Port GatewayStack YStack X Protocol CXL.io
Stack Y Protocol 
(CXL or PCIe or Streaming)
ARB/MUXStack XStack X Protocol CXL.cachememConfig a Config b
Config c Config d
Config e Config f
Config g Config hStack 0
--- Page 52 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 336
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.2.2 Mainband
All MPMs on mainband carry a 2-DWORD he ader referred to as “MPM Header” (see Figure 8-28  and 
Figure 8-31 ). In that Header, bits [4:0] in the first DWORD carry the MPM opcode and are defined in 
Table 8-22 . The remainder of this section discusses the format of these opcode messages. See 
Section 8.2.5.2.3  for details of how these messages are packed in the Management Flit when 
transmitting over the mainband.
8.2.2.2.1 MPMs with Data
Bits [21:14] in the first DWORD of the MPM header (see Figure 8-28 ) of an MPM with Data message 
form an 8b msgcode that denotes a specific MP M with Data message. Su pported MPM with data 
messages on the mainband are shown in Table 8-23 .
The term “MPM payload” is used in the remainder of  this section to refer to the payload in the MPM 
with Data messages.
8.2.2.2.1.1 Common Fields in MPM Header of MPM with Data Messages on Mainband
Figure 8-28  shows and Table 8-24  describes the common fields in the MPM header of MPM with data 
messages on the mainband.Table 8-22. MPM Opcodes on Mainband
Opcode Message
10111b MPM without Data
11000b MPM with DataOthers Reserved
Table 8-23. Supported MPM with Data Messages on Mainband
msgcode Message
01h Encapsulated MTP Message
FFh Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway Message
Others Reserved
Figure 8-28. Common Fields in MPM Header of all MPM with Data Messages on Mainband
3210
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
rsvdre
spvc msgcode lengthrs
vdopcode = 11000b
rsvd msgcode-specific rsvdmsgcode-
specificrsvdrxq
id
Table 8-24. Common Fields in MPM Header of all MPM with Data Messages 
on Mainband (Sheet 1 of 2)
Field Description
opcode 11000b: MPM with Data.
length MPM Payload length (i.e., 0h for 1 QWOR D, 1h for 2 QWORDs, 2h for 3 QWORDs, etc.).
msgcode Message code as defined in Table 8-23 .
--- Page 53 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 337
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.2.2.1.2 Encapsulated MTP Message
Encapsulated MTP on the mainband is an MPM with Data with a msgcode of 01h.
8.2.2.2.1.3 Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway Message
The Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway message with data is defined for custom 
communication between MPGs on the two ends of a UCIe mainband link. These messages are not part vc Virtual Channel ID.
resp0: Request MPM.
1: Response MPM.For a Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway Message with Data, this bit is always 0 
(see Section 8.2.2.2.1.3 ).
rxqidRxQ-ID to which this packet is destined. See Section 8.2.3.2.2  for RxQ details.
rxqid=0 corresponds to Stack 0. rxqid=1 corresponds to Stack 1.
Figure 8-29. Encapsulated MTP on Mainband
32 10
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
a
a. MPM Header.rsvdre
spvc msgcode = 01h lengthrs
vdopcode = 11000b
rsvd rsvd s p rsvdrxq
id
b
b. MPM Payload.… … DWORD 0: Byte 1 DWORD 0: Byte 0
c
c. Management Transport Packet (MTP).d
d. Length in MPM Header.… … DWORD 1: Byte 1 DWORD 1: Byte 0
…
1 DWORD padding of all 0s (if required)e
e. DWORD padding.
Table 8-25. Encapsulated MTP on Mainband Fields
Location Bit Description
MPM Headera
a. See Section 8.2.2.2.1.1  for details of header fields common to all MPMs with data on the mainband.sSegmented MTP (see Section 8.2.4.2 ). The first and middle segments in a 
segmented MTP have this bit set to 1. The last segment in a segmented MTP will have this bit cleared to 0. An unsegmented MTP also has this bit 
cleared to 0.
p1-DWORD padding of all 0s added at the end of the packet, if required to 
align to a QWORD boundary.
MPM Payload —See Section 8.1.3.1  for details. Note that DWORDx:Bytey in Figure 8-29  
refers to the corresponding DWORD,  Byte defined in the Management 
Transport Packet in Figure 8-5 .Table 8-24. Common Fields in MPM Header of all MPM with Data Messages 
on Mainband (Sheet 2 of 2)
Field Description
--- Page 54 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 338
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 of the Management transport protocol, and these messages start at an MPG and terminate at the MPG 
on the other end of the UCIe mainband link. These messages share the same rxqid buffers as 
encapsulated MTP messages. If an MPG does not support these messages or does not support 
vendor-defined messages from a given vendor (identif ied by the UCIe Vendor ID in the header), the 
MPG silently drops those messages. Ordering of th ese messages sent over multiple mainband stacks 
is subject to the same rules presented in Section 8.2.4.3  for encapsulated MTPs.
8.2.2.2.2 MPMs without Data
Bits [21:14] in the first DWORD of the MPM head er of an MPM without Data message form an 
8b msgcode that denotes a specific MPM without Data message. Table 8-27  lists the supported 
msgcodes.Figure 8-30. Vendor-defined Management Port  Gateway Message with Data on Mainband
32 10
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
a
a. MPM Header.rsvdre
sp 
= 0vc msgcode = FFh lengthrs
vdopcode = 11000b
rsvd UCIe Vendor ID rsvdrxq
id
b
b. MPM Payload.Vendor-defined payloadc
c. Length in MPM Header.
Table 8-26. Vendor-defined Mana gement Port Gateway Message 
with Data on Mainband Fields
Location Field Description
MPM Headera
a. See Section 8.2.2.2.1.1  for details of header fields common to all MPMs with data on the mainband.UCIe Vendor ID UCIe Consortium-assigned unique ID for each vendor.
MPM Payload — Vendor-defined.
Table 8-27. Supported MPM withou t Data Messages on Mainband
msgcode Message
01h Management Port Gateway Capabilities Message
03h Init Done Message
FFh Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway MessageOthers Reserved
--- Page 55 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 339
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.2.2.2.1 Common Header Fields of MP M without Data Messages on Mainband
Figure 8-31  shows and Table 8-28  describes the common fields in the MPM header of MPM without 
data messages on the mainband.
8.2.2.2.2.2 Management Port Gateway Capabilities Message
See Section 8.2.3.2.2  for details of how this message is us ed during mainband management path 
initialization.
Figure 8-32  shows and Table 8-29  describes the Management Port Gateway Capabilities message 
format on the mainband.Figure 8-31. Common Fields in MPM Header of all MPM without Data Messages on Mainband
321 0
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
rsvdmsgcode-
specificmsgcode msgcode-specificrs
vdopcode = 10111b
rsvd msgcode-specific rsvdmsgc
ode-
specif
ic
Table 8-28. Common Fields in MPM Header of all MPM without Data Messages on Mainband
Field Description
opcode 10111b: MPM without Data.
msgcode Message code as defined in Table 8-27 .
Figure 8-32. Management Port Gateway Capabilities MPM on Mainband
32 1 0
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
a
a. MPM Header.rsvd msgcode = 01h NumVC rsvd opcode = 10111b
rsvd Port ID[15:0] rsvd
Table 8-29. Management Port Gateway Capabi lities MPM Header Fields on Mainbanda
a. See Section 8.2.2.2.2.1  for details of header fields common to all MPMs without data on the mainband.Field Description
NumVCNumber of VCs supported by the Management  Port Gateway that is transmitting the 
message.
Port IDPort ID number value of the Management po rt associated with the Management Port 
Gateway that is issuing the message (see Section 8.1.3.6.2.1 ).
--- Page 56 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 340
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.2.2.2.3 Init Done Message
See Section 8.2.3.2.2  for details of how this message is us ed during mainband management path 
initialization.
Figure 8-33  shows and Table 8-30  describes the Init Done message format on the mainband.
8.2.2.2.2.4 Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway Message
The Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway message without data is defined for custom 
communication between the MPGs on both ends of a UCIe mainband link. These messages are not part of the management transport protocol, and th ese messages start at an MPG and terminate at the 
MPG on the other end of the UCIe mainband link . These messages share the same rxqid buffers as 
encapsulated MTP messages. If an MPG does not support these messages or does not support these messages from a given vendor (identified by the UC Ie Vendor ID in the he ader), the MPG silently 
drops those messages.
The Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway message without data on the mainband has the 
format shown in Figure 8-33 .Figure 8-33. Init Done MPM on Mainband
32 1 0
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
a
a. MPM Header.rsvd msgcode = 03h rsvd opcode = 10111b
rsvdrxqi
d
Table 8-30. Init Done MPM Header Fields on Mainbanda
a. See Section 8.2.2.2.2.1  for details of header fields common to all MPMs without data on the mainband.Field Description
rxqid RxQ-ID associated with the message. See Section 8.2.3.2.2  for RxQ details.
Figure 8-34. Vendor-defined Management Port  Gateway Message without Data on Mainband
32 1 0
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
a
a. MPM Header.rsvdre
sp 
= 0vc msgcode = FFh Vendor-definedrs
vdopcode = 10111b
rsvd UCIe Vendor ID rsvdrxq
id
--- Page 57 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 341
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.3 Management Transport Path Setup
Management transport path setup occurs in two distinct phases:
•Negotiation phase  — In this phase, support for management transport, and when supported, 
the number of RxQs present in the partner chiplet,  are negotiated. This is required for backward 
compatibility. This negotiation is done separately for sideband and mainband.
•Initialization phase  — In this phase, the number of VCs supported is negotiated, and the RxQs 
in the Management Port Gateways on both ends of the link are initialized through credit 
exchanges for each supported VC. Port IDs are also exchanged.
Section 8.2.3.1  describes the setup process for the sideband. Section 8.2.3.2  describes the setup 
process for the mainband.
8.2.3.1 Sideband
Sideband Management Transport path setup occurs  after a Management Reset or when Software 
writes 1 to the ‘Retrain Link’ bit in the Sideband Management Port Structure register (see Section 8.1.3.6.2.1 ). After setup is complete, management transport path over sideband remains 
active until the next Management Reset or until a ‘H eartbeat timeout’ is detected (as described in 
Section 8.2.5.1.3 ).
8.2.3.1.1 Negotiation Phase Steps
Negotiation occurs in the MBINIT.PARAM state. See Section 4.5.3.3.1.1  for details.
8.2.3.1.2 Initialization Phase Steps
If the Negotiation phase indicates support for Ma nagement transport and the SB_MGMT_UP flag (see 
Section 4.5 ) is cleared, Initialization phase steps are performed as indicated in this section.
A few general rules for RxQs that are initialized in this phase:
• Management Port Gateway maintains separate Rx qu eues for each sideband link over which it can 
receive MPMs. The Management Port Gateway can li mit the number of Rx queues to be the same 
or smaller than the number of modules in the design . For example, in a design with four modules, 
a Management Port Gateway can choose to limit Rx queues to three or two or one.
• Each Rx queue in the Management Port Gateway is assigned a separate RxQ-ID and it is relevant 
for maintaining ordering when interleaving MTPs across multiple sideband links. See 
Section 8.2.4.3 .
• See Section 8.2.4.1  for details of credit buffers that are required in each Rx queue.Table 8-31. MPM Header Vendor-defined  Management Port Gateway Message 
without Data on Mainbanda
a. See Section 8.2.2.2.2.1  for details of header fields common to all MPMs without data on the mainband.Field Description
vc Virtual Channel ID.
respVendor-defined Management Port Gateway message without data always uses the 
Request channel.
UCIe Vendor ID UCIe Consortium-assi gned unique ID for each vendor.
rxqid RxQ-ID to which this packet is destined. See Section 8.2.3.2.2  for RxQ details.
--- Page 58 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 342
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Number of RxQs finalized for transmitting and receiving MPMs is 0 to MIN{RxQ-Local, RxQ-
Remote}, where RxQ-Local and RxQ-Remote are defined in Section 4.5.3.3.1.1 .
• Transmission of MPMs with a given RxQ-ID is always associated with a specific local module that is 
design-specific. For example, an MPM with an RxQ- ID of 0 can be sent on any Module’s sideband 
and that choice is design-specific. However, the choice is static and cannot change after the first 
MPM with that RxQ-ID is sent.
• Credits associated with each RxQ-ID are exchange d with a remote link partner by way of Credit 
Return messages as discussed below. 
Initialization phase steps:
After pm_param_done  is asserted and there is >0 modu le count negotiated for management 
transport for the local and remote sides, the Mana gement Port Gateway begins the initialization 
process to the remote MPG for each RxQ-ID that the MPG needs to enable.
1. The initialization phase starts (shown in Figure 8-35 , Figure 8-36 , and Figure 8-37 ) with each 
Management Port Gateway sending the Manageme nt Port Gateway Capabilities message (see 
Figure 7-9  for message format).
— Message can be sent on any RxQ-ID path, but sent only once per initialization phase from a 
chiplet to the partner chiplet.
— Port ID value in the transmitted message is the value in Port ID field (see Table 8-12 ).
— Port ID value in the received message is recorded in the “Remote Port ID” field (see 
Table 8-12 ).
— NumVC field is the number of VCs supported by the transmitting Management Port Gateway. 
The number of VCs supported is the value in the NumVC field + 1. For example, if only one VC 
(VC0) is supported, NumVC is 0h. If two VCs are supported (VC0, VC1), then NumVC is 1h, 
etc.
— MIN{Transmitted NumVC, Received NumVC} +1 number of VCs is enabled by each 
Management Port Gateway in the subsequent step s. The value of the enabled VCs starts from 
0 and increments by 1 for each enabled VC up to MIN{Transmitted NumVC, Received 
NumVC}.
2. Management Port Gateway then sends credit Retu rn messages for each enabled VC for each type 
(requests and responses), across all enabled RxQ-IDs. The Management Port Gateway is 
permitted to send  this message. Figure 8-35  shows the flow for the case of only a single RxQ 
(RxQ-ID=0) and single VC (VC0) negotiated during the negotiation phase. Figure 8-36  shows the 
flow for the case of two RxQs (RxQ-ID=0, 1) and single VC (VC0) negotiated during the 
negotiation phase. Figure 8-37  shows the flow for the case of only a single RxQ (RxQ-ID=0) and 
two VCs (VC0, VC1) negotiated during the negotiation phase.
— Credit Return message (see Figure 7-10 ) contains an “RxQ-ID” field. The field must be 
assigned starting from 0 to MIN{RxQ-Local, RxQ-Remote}-1.
— Infinite credits are permitted to be advertised. Th is is performed by sending a value of 3FFh in 
the “Rx Credit return in QWORDs” field for that VC and Type before the “Init Done”.
--- Page 59 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 343
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-35. Sideband Management Tran sport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0 and One VC (VC0)Chiplet 0Chiplet 1Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
--- Page 60 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 344
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-36. Sideband Management Tran sport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0, 1 and One VC (VC0)Chiplet 0Chiplet 1Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
Legend
Link A
Link B
--- Page 61 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 345
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 3. After the last Credit Return message for a given RxQ-ID, the Management Port Gateway must 
send an “Init Done” message (see Figure 7-11 ) for the corresponding RxQ-ID. This informs the 
remote Link partner that a receiver has finished  advertising credits for enabled VCs for the given 
RxQ-ID.
— After “Init Done” has been transmitted and re ceived by a Management Port Gateway for all 
available RxQ-ID paths, the MPG is ready for sending Management Transport packets.
o Sideband should be able to send/receive management transport packets at this point 
without any dependency on the mainband link status.
o Management Port Gateway asserts the mp_mgmt_up  and mp_mgmt_init_done  signals 
to PHY to indicate that the Management Transport Path was successfully initialized. PHY 
sets the SB_MGMT_UP flag when both mp_mgmt_up  and mp_mgmt_init_done  are 
asserted. The flag remains set until the management path goes down. In case of any fatal 
error (e.g., credit return messages were rece ived for an RxQ-ID that is not expected, a 
timeout occurred while waiting for the Init Done message, etc.) during RxQ credit 
exchange, the mp_mgmt_up  signal will remain de-asserted with the 
mp_mgmt_init_done  signal asserted.
o Note that the Management Port Gateway is unaware of PHY states and thus, after the 
mp_mgmt_up  signal is asserted, the Management Port Gateway assumes that the Figure 8-37. Sideband Management Tran sport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0 and Two VCs (VC0, VC1)Chiplet 0Chiplet 1Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
--- Page 62 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 346
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 management path through the sideband is available unless there is a Management Reset 
or the MPG detects an error through the mechanism described in Section 8.2.5.1.3 .
o After the SB_MGMT_UP flag is set, sideband li nk is available for sideband packet (MPMs or 
any other sideband packets) transmission/reception in all state machine states including 
RESET/SBINIT.
— After the Management Port Gateway receives the “Init Done” message for a given RxQ-ID, the 
MPG must be ready to receiv e MTPs with that RxQ-ID.
The PHY Layer routes a message with a given RxQ-ID (specified by the mp_rxqid  signal) to a specific 
module’s sideband link and that association is design-specific. Note that because RxQ-ID association 
to a module sideband is design-specific, on the same sideband link, messages with different RxQ-IDs 
in each direction are possible.
8.2.3.1.3 Other Sideband Mana gement Transport Path Rules
• Sideband interfaces successfully initialized for management transport are available for 
management transport regardless of the associated mainband module’s state.
— Note that when management transport is NOT supported and Module 0’s mainband is disabled 
at runtime, the sideband interface on that module is also disabled and D2D messages are 
routed to the sideband interface of the next-available lowest-numbered module that is 
enabled. When management transport is supp orted and enabled on the sideband link, the 
sideband link remains active for both management and non-management packets even if the 
corresponding mainband module is disabled.
• If SW writes 1 to the ‘Retrain Link’ bit in the Ma nagement Port Structure register associated with 
a sideband link when the Management Path is already up on that port, the Management Port 
Gateway must follow the ‘Heartbeat timeout’ flow (see Section 8.2.5.1.3 ) to bring the 
management path down before instructing th e PHY to restart link negotiation (by the 
sb_mgmt_init_start  signal).
8.2.3.2 Mainband
Mainband Management Transport path setup occurs wh en a link trains up. After the setup is complete, 
the management transport path remains active until a Domain Reset or until the link or the associated 
stack(s) goes down.
8.2.3.2.1 Negotiation Phase Steps
Mainband Management Transport path negotiation occurs on every mainband link training, thereby 
leveraging the existing D2D adapter protocol ne gotiation messages/flows. Support for Management 
Transport protocol within a stack is explicitly indicated with a new bit in the negotiation flow (see 
Table 3-1 ).
Section 3.1  and Section 3.2  provide Management Transport protocol  negotiation details. At the end of 
protocol negotiation, the D2D adapter indicates the number of D2D stacks that negotiated 
Management Transport protocol by signals discussed in Table 10-3 .
8.2.3.2.2 Initialization Phase Steps
A few general rules for the RxQs that are initialized in this phase:
• Management Port Gateway maintains separate Rx queues for receiving MTPs over each 
negotiated stack.
--- Page 63 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 347
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Each Rx queue within the Management Port Gateway is assigned a separate RxQ-ID, which is 
necessary for maintaining ordering when inte rleaving packets across multiple stacks. See 
Section 8.2.4.3 .
• See Section 8.2.4.1  for details of credit buffers that are required in each Rx queue.
• RxQ-ID values are either 0 or 1. A value of 0 is used if only one stack is negotiated for 
management transport (regardless of the stack-id  value negotiated) and values of 0 and 1 are 
used if two stacks are negotiated for management  transport. In the latter case, an RxQ-ID value 
of 0 is used for Stack 0, and an RxQ-ID of 1 is used for Stack 1.
When FDI transitions to active state ( pl_state_sts =Active) from reset state 
(pl_state_sts =Reset) and Management transport was negotiated, the Management Port Gateway 
starts the Initialization phase. In a multi-stac k implementation where management transport is 
present on both stacks, the D2D adapter flit negotiation, and protocol negotiation across both stacks 
must have completed (as indicated by the dm_param_exchange_done  signal) before the 
Management Port Gateway starts its initialization sequence.
The initialization flow follows the similar sequence as sideband and some example flows are illustrated 
below. The credit exchange is not by way of an expl icit message as in sideband, but rather by way of 
a dedicated DWORD, ‘CRD’, in management flits whose format is shown in Figure 8-45  and further 
explained in Chapter 3.0 . Management Port Gateway Capabilities and Init Done Message formats for 
the mainband can be seen in Section 8.2.2.2.2 . Note that during initialization, the transmitter can 
return valid credits in the same Management Flit that carries the Init Done message. All protocol layer 
bytes in the management flit (minus the CRD and Rs vd bytes) carrying the ‘Init Done’ MPM are driven 
with NOPs after the ‘Init Done’ MPM.
In Figure 8-38 , Figure 8-39 , and Figure 8-40 , the labeling
Mgmt_Flit {<MPM>, CRD[<credits returned>]}
refers to a Management Flit that carries the specified MPM along with credit returns for the indicated 
credit types. For example:
Mgmt_Flit {Init Done, CRD[RxQ-ID=0: VC0-Request, VC0-Response]}
indicates a Management Flit that carries the Init Done message along with credit returns for the VC0 
request and response credit types for RxQ-ID=0.
--- Page 64 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 348
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-38. Mainband Management Transport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0 and One VC (VC0)
Figure 8-39. Mainband Management Transport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0, 1 and One VC (VC0)Chiplet 0Chiplet 1Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
Chiplet 0Chiplet 1
Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
Legend
Stack AStack B
--- Page 65 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 349
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.3.2.3 Other Mainband Management Transport Path Rules
The following rules relate to Management Port  Gateways and mainband Management Transport:
• During runtime, if the FDI status on any stack that has management traffic negotiated moves to a 
Link Status=down state, the Management Port Ga teway behaves the same as in the ‘Init Done’ 
timeout scenario (see Section 8.2.4.4 ) across both stacks, if more than one stack had 
management transport negotiated.
• Arbitration between Management Flits and regular Protocol Layer Flits is implementation-specific.
• When management Software writes 1 to the ‘Retra in link’ bit in the Management Port Structure 
register that corresponds to the mainband link, the mainband is retrained, similar to when SW 
writes 1 to the ‘Start UCIe Link Training’ bit in the UCIe Link Control register in the UCIe link 
DVSEC. Note that this retraining  of the mainband does not affect the management path on the 
sideband (if that path had been negotiated),  if the path was already set up and active.
8.2.4 Common Rules for Management Transport 
over Sideband and Mainband
8.2.4.1 Management Packet Flow Control
The rules for management transport flow control are as follows:
• Forward progress and Flow Control are ma naged by the Management Port Gateways.
• Flow control credits are independent for sideband and mainband paths, if both are implemented in 
a given UCIe port.
• Encapsulated MTPs are credited, and the credits cover both the header an d payload portions of 
the encapsulated MTP.
• Management Port Gateway Capability message, Cred it return messages, Init Done messages, and 
PM-related messages must sink unconditionally at the destination.Figure 8-40. Mainband Management Transport Initialization Phase Example 
with RxQ-ID=0 and Two VCs (VC0, VC1)Chiplet 0Chiplet 1
Chiplet 0 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 1Chiplet 1 can transmit 
Management Transport 
Packets to Chiplet 0
--- Page 66 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 350
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Although the number of VCs supported in both di rections is the same, TC-to-VC mapping can be 
different in each direction. S ee the Route Entry description in Section 8.1.3.6.2.2  for how SW 
controls mapping of TC to VC.
• For each RxQ-ID in the Management Port Gateway:
— Independent credit management is required for each resp type (Requests vs. Responses), and 
each supported VC.
— Credits are in QWORD (64-bit) granularity (i.e., one credit corresponds to one QWORD of 
storage space at the receiver buffer).
— Minimum three credits are required for each cr edit type when nonzero credits are advertised.
— Header and Data portions of an Encapsulated Management Transport packet and Vendor-
defined Management Port Gateway Messages use the same type of credit.
— Receiver implements separate buffers for Re quests and Responses per supported VC and 
advertises the corresponding credits to the remote Management Port Gateway during 
initialization. Credits are returned when sp ace is freed up in the receiver buffers.
— Up to eight VCs are permitted — different VC counts are permitted on sideband vs. mainband.
o Support for VC0 is mandatory for all implementations.o For every VC supported, it is mandatory to initialize credits for Request types and 
Response types.
o Credits advertised for a VC:Resp credit type during the initialization phase can be either 0 
across all RxQ-IDs or nonzero across all RxQ-IDs.
o If a VC is initialized, credits for that VC must be advertised on all enabled RxQ-IDs and 
Resp types. For example, it is NOT permitted to have a configuration where VC1 is supported on RxQ-ID 0 but not on RxQ-ID 1. Ho wever, it is not required to advertise the 
same number of credits on all enabled Path s. This rule is important to simplify 
Transmitter/Receiver implementations at Management Port Gateways for interleaving MTPs across multiple Links while maintaining ordering across them (see 1.4.3 for concept 
of interleaving).
— During management transport initialization and be fore the Init Done message is received, if 
multiple credit returns are received for the same VC:Resp credit type, the value from the 
latest credit return overwrites the previous value.
• Number of RxQs (in the partner chiplet’s Management Port Gateway) to which a Management Port 
Gateway can transmit management messages is always same as the number of RxQs to which the MPG can receive these messages (from the partner chiplet’s Management Port Gateway). For 
example, if two RxQs were negotiated, both send  and receive of management traffic must be on 
two RxQs.
• If the initial credit advertised was infinite for a credit type, there cannot be any credits returned 
for that type at run time (i.e., after the Init Do ne message has been sent), with one exception for 
the “VC0 request infinite credit” scenario for wh ich a runtime credit return of 0 is permitted.
• Credits advertised during the initialization phas e are the maximum number of credits that can be 
outstanding at the transmitter at any point during runtime.
• See Section 8.2.4.3  for the rules for maintaining ordering when interleaving MTPs/MTP Segments 
across different RxQ-IDs.
• Chiplets can optionally check for the following error conditions during management path 
initialization flow, and abort the flow when these conditions are detected:
— Receiving credit returns for more RxQ-IDs than  what was negotiated in the Negotiation Phase.
--- Page 67 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 351
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 — Receiving credit returns for more VCs than what  was implicitly negotiated by the Management 
Port Gateway Capabilities message.
— Not receiving credit returns or  receiving incomplete credit re turns for any of the negotiated 
RxQ-IDs prior to receiving the ‘Init Done’ message for the RxQ-ID.
8.2.4.2 Segmentation
The Management Port Gateway is permitted to brea k up (i.e., segment) one large MTP and send the 
individual segments across multiple RxQ-IDs (i.e., interleave; see Figure 8-41  for an example). This is 
useful for cases in which the MTP message sizes are asymmetric. When segmenting:
• Management Port Gateway sets the s bit in the Encapsulated MTP message header within each 
individual segment except the last segment that  completes the MTP transf er. If an MTP is not 
segmented, the s bit is 0. Segments with the s bit set to 1 must not also have the p bit set to 1.
• Transmitter must ensure that no other Encapsulat ed MTP OR no other credited MPM packet (e.g., 
Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway message s), from the same VC:Resp credit type is 
interleaved until the segmented management packet completes.
Note that segmentation is visible only from Management Port Gateway-to-Management Port Gateway 
and is not end-to-end on the UCIe Management Fabric.
See Section 8.2.4.3  for the rules for reassembling the segm ents and maintaining ordering when 
interleaving Segments across different RxQ-IDs.
--- Page 68 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 352
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.4.3 Interleaving and Multi-module Sideband 
and Multi-stack Mainband Ordering
When multiple RxQ-IDs are negotiated, the Manageme nt Port Gateway must interleave different MTPs 
of a given VC:Resp credit type across the different RxQ-IDs. For example, when the transmitter does 
not support Segmentation (see Section 8.2.4.2 ), if there are two MTPs, Pkt 1 and Pkt 2, both on VC0 
and of Resp=0 type and two RxQ-ID s were negotiated, these must be sent on two different RXQ-IDs. 
This is called interleaving. When the transmitter su pports Segmentation, individual Segments are also 
interleaved. This section discusses transmitter and receiver rules when inte rleaving so that the 
original management packet ordering (see Section 8.1.3.1.1 ) is maintained when the MTPs eventually 
make it to the management network on the receivin g partner chiplet. For the purposes of discussing 
these rules in this section, the nomenclature of RxQ-IDx:VCy:Respz is used to refer to the credit 
buffer of RxQ-ID=x (x=0 to 3), VCy (y=0-7) and Respz (z=0 for Re quest and 1 for Response) type.
8.2.4.3.1 Transmitter Rules
• First Encapsulated MTP after Management path setup, of a given VCy:Respz credit type is 
transmitted to the RxQ-ID0:VCy:Respz credit buffers of the partner chiplet.Figure 8-41. Example Illustration of a Large MTP Transmitted over Multiple RxQ-IDs 
on Sideband with Segmentationa
a. N = Number of RxQ-IDs negotiated.
x = Start value of RxQ-ID for an MTP.Management Transport Packet (MTP) 1st Segmentb — This goes on RxQ-ID=x
b. A segment is an Encapsulated MTP with its s bit set to 1.QWORD 0 MTP Header QWORD 0 MPM Header (s = 1, length = 6h)
QWORD 1 MTP Data 0 QWORD 1 MTP HeaderQWORD 2 MTP Data 1 QWORD 2 MTP Data 0QWORD 3 MTP Data 2 QWORD 3 MTP Data 1
QWORD 4 MTP Data 3 QWORD 4 MTP Data 2
QWORD 5 MTP Data 4 QWORD 5 MTP Data 3QWORD 6 MTP Data 5 QWORD 6 MTP Data 4
QWORD 7 MTP Data 6 QWORD 7 MTP Data 5
QWORD 8 MTP Data 7
QWORD 9 MTP Data 8
2nd Segmentb — This goes on RxQ-ID=MOD((x+1)/N)
QWORD 10 MTP Data 9 QWORD 8 MPM Header (s = 1, length = 6h)
QWORD 11 MTP Data 10 QWORD 9 MTP Data 6
QWORD 12 MTP Data 11 QWORD 10 MTP Data 7
QWORD 13 MTP Data 12 QWORD 11 MTP Data 8QWORD 14 MTP Data 13 QWORD 12 MTP Data 9
QWORD 15 MTP Data 14 QWORD 13 MTP Data 10
QWORD 14 MTP Data 11QWORD 15 MTP Data 12
3rd Segmentb — This goes on RxQ-ID=MOD((x+2)/N)
QWORD 0 MPM Header (s = 0, length = 1h)
QWORD 1 MTP Data 13QWORD 2 MTP Data 14
--- Page 69 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 353
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 — When the MTP is not segmented, the MTP is fully  transmitted to the associated credit buffers 
and this could take multiple Encapsulated MTPs. In that scenario, each Encapsulated MTP 
carries the same MPM header but with the length  field adjusted for the data length in that 
message. cr_ret_* fields are also refreshed in every Encapsulated MTP (on the sideband) and 
indicate 0 if there is no new credit to return. On the mainband path, credits can be refreshed 
every management flit.
— RxQ-ID is incremented by 1 for transmitting th e next MTP of the same VCy:Respz credit type 
(i.e., the next MTP of VCy:Respz credit type is sent to RxQ-ID1:VCy:Respz credit buffers).
— When the MTP is segmented, a single Encapsulated MTP belonging to the MTP is transmitted 
to the associated buffers with the “s” bit se t to 1. RxQ-ID is incremented by 1 (with 
wraparound as indicated later in this section)  for transmitting each subsequent segment of 
the same MTP until the MTP is fully sent. After the MTP is fully sent, the RxQ-ID is 
incremented by 1 again (with wraparound as indicated later in this section) for transmitting the next MTP of the same VCy:Respz credit type.
• The above scheme is repeated independently for traffic within each VCy:Respz credit type. 
Transmission of packets on different VCy:Resp z queues have no dependencies between them.
• RxQ-ID value wraps around after the maximum-negotiated RxQ-ID.• Transmission to multiple RxQ-ID buffers can occur in parallel on sideband links or mainband 
stacks.
8.2.4.3.2 Receiver Rules
• On the Rx side, after a Management path setup,  the Management Port Gateway services a full 
MTP (or in the case of Segmen tation, one Encapsulated MTP of  a MTP) on RxQ-ID0:VCy:Respz 
queue for a given VCy:Respz credit type. Note that receiving a full MTP could take multiple 
Encapsulated MTPs.
— Gateway then services the next MTP (or in ca se on Segmentation, the next Encapsulated MTP 
of the management packet) on the RxQ-ID 1:VCy:Respz queue, and then on the RxQ-
ID2:VCy:Respz queue (if supported), etc.
— In case of segmentation, the receiver can look at the “s” bit being cleared to 0 (from being set 
to 1 in prior segments) to know the last segment of an MTP.
— RxQ-ID value wraps around after the maximum-negotiated RxQ-ID.
• The above receiver scheme applies independentl y for each VCy:Respz credit type and there are 
no dependencies between them.
• Messages that do not consume credits must not be allocated into the credited Rx queues (credit 
returns, PM wake/ack/sleep messages) — and ar e unconditionally consumed by the Receiver.
Figure 8-42  illustrates the ordering mechanism for an example scenario with three RXQ-IDs, and y 
VCs (where y=0-7) on the sideband. For the purpos es of this illustration — TC0 management port 
traffic is mapped to VC0 on the sideband manageme nt path. TCy management port traffic is mapped 
to VCy on the sideband management path. Note that in the figure, TC0 Req Pkt 1 and TC0 Resp Pkt 2 
are segmented to two segments, to show the impact  of segmentation on interleaving and ordering. 
Other MTPs are not segmented. Similar ordering appl ies for packets that are interleaved over multiple 
stacks on the mainband.
Vendor-defined Management Port Gateway messages also use the same credited buffers as MTPs. 
Transmitter and receiver interleaving rules for these messages are the same as discussed earlier for 
Encapsulated MTPs.
--- Page 70 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 354
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 xFigure 8-42. Conceptual Illustration of Side band Multi-module Ordering with Three RxQs
TCy eMTP Resp Pkt 3TC0 eMTP Resp Pkt 2
(1st Segment)**TC0 eMTP Resp Pkt 1
TC0 eMTP Resp Pkt 4
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 1
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 2
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 3
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 4TC0 eMTP Req Pkt 1
(1st Segment)*
TC0 eMTP Req Pkt 4
RxQ-ID=0 RxQ-ID=1 RxQ-ID=2SB Link 0SB Link 1SB Link 2The receiving Management Port Gateway 
starts processing from RxQ-ID=0, 
RxQ-ID=1, RxQ-ID=2, and then rolls 
back to RxQ-ID=0. The Management Port 
Gateway performs this process 
independently for each credit path 
(i.e., Request and Response for each VC).
TCy MTP Req Pkt 1
TCy MTP Req Pkt 2
TCy MTP Req Pkt 3
TCy MTP Req Pkt 4Management Port Gateway
Management Port GatewayTo management network in 
Management Port Gateway
From management network 
in Management Port GatewayVCy Request buffersVCy Response buffersVC0 Response buffers
VC0 Request buffers
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 1
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 2
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 3
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 4TC0 MTP Req Pkt 1
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 2
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 3
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 4VC0 Response buffers
VC0 Request buffersVCy Response buffers
VCy Request buffers
TC0
ReqTC0
RespTCy
ReqTCy
RespTC0
ReqTC0
RespTCy
ReqTCy
Resp
Represents the 
traffic ordering after 
RxQ arbitration
TCy eMTP Resp Pkt 3 TCy eMTP Resp Pkt 2TCy eMTP Resp Pkt 1
TCy eMTP Resp Pkt 4TCy eMTP Req Pkt 1
TCy eMTP Req Pkt 4TCy eMTP Req Pkt 2 TCy eMTP Req Pkt 3TCy MTP Resp Pkt 1
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 2
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 3
TCy MTP Resp Pkt 4TCy MTP Req Pkt 1
TCy MTP Req Pkt 2
TCy MTP Req Pkt 3
TCy MTP Req Pkt 4
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 1
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 2
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 3
TC0 MTP Resp Pkt 4TC0 MTP Req Pkt 1
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 2
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 3
TC0 MTP Req Pkt 4
eMTP = Encapsulated MTP
* TC0 MTP Req Pkt 1 
is segmented into 
two Segments
** TC0 MTP Req Pkt 2 
is segmented into 
two SegmentsTC0 eMTP Req Pkt 3TC0 eMTP Req Pkt 1
(2nd Segment)*TC0 eMTP Resp Pkt 2
(2nd Segment)**
TCy eMTP Req Pkt 2
--- Page 71 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 355
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.4.4 ‘Init Done’ Timeout Flow
During the Management Transport Initialization Ph ase, a 16-ms timeout (also referred to as ‘Init 
Done’ timeout) is applied for receiving an “Init Done” MPM from the start of initialization, across all 
available RxQ-IDs. If an ‘Init Done’ timeout occurs:
• Management Port Gateway cannot schedule any new MPMs across any RxQ-ID and the MPG 
silently discards any MPMs received, and resets  all the RxQ-ID credit counters and pointers.
• Management Port Gateway indicates this status to management FW by way of the management 
port capability structure (see Section 8.1.3.6.2.1 ) and waits for SW to retrigger management 
path retraining.
8.2.5 Other Management Transport Details
8.2.5.1 Sideband
8.2.5.1.1 Management Port Gateway Flow Control over RDI
See Section 7.1.3.1  for details.
8.2.5.1.2 MPMs with Data Length Rules
When supporting MPMs with Data (see Section 7.1.2.4 ) over the sideband, to prevent these messages 
from occupying the sideband interface for extended periods of time (and thus blocking its usage for 
mainband link management packets), the following rules must be observed:
• An MPM with Data (e.g., Encapsulated MTP) can have a maximum length field value of seven 
QWORDs
• Receivers must not check for vi olation of this transmit rule.
• If the original MTP was larger than seven QWORDs , multiple Encapsulated MTPs are sent until the 
full MTP is transmitted. It is also permitted to send Encapsulated MTPs smaller than seven 
QWORDs even when the original MTP is larger than seven QWORDs. This can occur because of credit availability for transmitting the Encapsulated MTP.
• The above rules allow for the link to be arbitrat ed for any pending Link management packet OR 
any pending higher priority MEM packet of a differe nt VC:Resp credit type (waiting behind an MPM 
with Data that is in transmission) with an upper bound on the delay to transmit them. An example 
of a higher-priority MPM packet that needs to be  serviced in a time-bound fashion is a TC1 MTP 
(see Section 8.1.3.1.1 ).
• Segmentation, when performed, must follow the rules described above for each individual 
Segment of the MTP. See Section 8.2.4.2  for description of segmentation.
Figure 8-43  provides a pictorial representation of splitting a large MTP into multiple smaller 
Encapsulated MTPs (based on the length rules stat ed above) and how the Encapsulated MTPs are sent 
on the sideband link. If the MTP is also segmented, then each Encapsulated MTP is sent on a different 
RxQ-ID. See Section 8.2.4.2  and Section 8.2.4.3 .
See Section 4.8  for how the PHY arbitrates between MPMs and Link Management packets.
--- Page 72 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 356
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.5.1.3 Sideband Runtime Ma nagement Transport Path 
Monitoring — Heartbeat Mechanism
After the management transport path Initialization Phase completes, receiver starts an 8-ms 
‘Heartbeat’ timer that restarts whenever an MPM (i.e., opcode 10111b or 11000b) is received. Implementations are permitted to implement this timer as a global timer across all RxQ-IDs or as a 
timer per RxQ-ID. If the timer times out, the Management Port Gateway de-asserts the 
mp_mgmt_up  
signal which in turn clears the SB_MGMT_UP flag in the PHY and de-asserts the 
mp_mgmt_port_gateway_ready  signal. After a Heartbeat timeout, Management Port Gateway 
functions similar to what occurs during a ‘Init Done timeout’ (see Section 8.2.4.4  for details). The 
Heartbeat timer stops after L1/L2 entry negotiation on the sideband path successfully completes, and 
restarts when L1/L2 exit negotiation starts. See Section 8.2.5.1.4  for details of Management path PM 
entry/exit flows.
After the ‘Init Done’ message is been transmitted on  an RxQ-ID path during the initialization Phase, 
the Management Port Gateway (MPG) must guarantee an MPM transmission of no more than 4 ms 
apart on the RxQ-ID path. If there are no schedul ed messages to send on an RxQ-ID path, the MPG 
must send a credit return message (unless there was a Heartbeat timeout on the receiver side as 
stated in the previous paragraph) with VC value set to VC0, Resp value set to 0 and cr_ret value set Figure 8-43. Example Illustration of a Large MTP Split into Multiple Smaller 
Encapsulated-MTPs for Transport over Sideband, without Segmentationa
a. N = Number of RxQ-IDs negotiated.
x = Start value of RxQ-ID for an MTP.Management Transport Packet (MTP) SB Encapsulated MTP 0 — This goes on RxQ-ID=x
QWORD 0 MTP Header QWORD 0 MPM Header (s = 1, length = 6h)
QWORD 1 MTP Data 0 QWORD 1 MTP HeaderQWORD 2 MTP Data 1 QWORD 2 MTP Data 0QWORD 3 MTP Data 2 QWORD 3 MTP Data 1
QWORD 4 MTP Data 3 QWORD 4 MTP Data 2
QWORD 5 MTP Data 4 QWORD 5 MTP Data 3QWORD 6 MTP Data 5 QWORD 6 MTP Data 4
QWORD 7 MTP Data 6 QWORD 7 MTP Data 5
QWORD 8 MTP Data 7
QWORD 9 MTP Data 8
SB Encapsulated MTP 1 — This goes on RxQ-ID=x
QWORD 10 MTP Data 9 QWORD 8 MPM Header (s = 1, length = 6h)
QWORD 11 MTP Data 10 QWORD 9 MTP Data 6
QWORD 12 MTP Data 11 QWORD 10 MTP Data 7
QWORD 13 MTP Data 12 QWORD 11 MTP Data 8QWORD 14 MTP Data 13 QWORD 12 MTP Data 9
QWORD 15 MTP Data 14 QWORD 13 MTP Data 10
QWORD 14 MTP Data 11QWORD 15 MTP Data 12
SB Encapsulated MTP 2 — This goes on RxQ-ID=x
QWORD 0 MPM Header (s = 0, length = 1h)
QWORD 1 MTP Data 13QWORD 2 MTP Data 14
--- Page 73 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 357
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 to 0h. Note that the latter applies even if the MPG takes longer than 8 ms to  exit L1/L2 before the 
MPG sends the associated PM exit message.
If a control parity error is detected on any rece ived MPM, the Management Port Gateway invokes the 
‘Heartbeat timeout’ flow.
8.2.5.1.4 Sideband Management Path Power Management Rules
On the sideband interface, it is expected that th ere is higher-level firmware/software managing the 
deeper power states of Management Port Gateways on both sides. The sleep and wake req/ack/nak messages (see Figure 7-12 ) are provided to negotiate shutdown/wake of the management transport 
path for deep power states in which the Management Port Gateway logic can be clock gated or 
powered down (as coordinated by the higher-level fi rmware). It is especially useful for a low-power 
chiplet and/or SiP states flows to take advantage of these handshakes and coordinate entry and wake 
up of the Management Transport Path. These messages and negotiation must occur independently for 
each RxQ-ID path, and each direction. While not in  a PM state, the Management Port Gateway must 
keep the 
mp_wake_req  signal asserted and this informs the Physical Layer adapter to keep the logic 
up and running.
8.2.5.1.4.1 Sideband PM Entry Rules
• Management Port Gateway Transmitter that initiates the PM entry ensures that no other packets 
will be transmitted (other than credit returns and PM messages) on any of the enabled RxQ-ID 
paths.
• Following the above, the Transmitter sends a “Sle ep req” message on each of the RxQ-ID paths. 
After a “Sleep req” message is sent on an RxQ- ID path, only credit return messages can be 
transmitted on the path until a “Sleep ack” messa ge is received on the path or a Sleep ack 
timeout occurs (see last bullet in this section below). If the former scenario, additional message 
transmissions are not permitted until the subsequent PM exit. In the latter scenario, message transmission can resume soon after the timeout.
• After receiving a “Sleep req” message, the rece iving Management Port Gateway must ensure that 
the corresponding Rx buffer is empty, and that al l pending credit returns have been sent to the 
remote Link partner. After these conditions are met, a “Sleep ack” message is scheduled.
• If a chiplet responded with a “Sleep ack” message , the chiplet must send a “Sleep req” message 
(if not already sent) within 16 ms of sending the “Sleep ack” and receive a response to complete 
the flow; otherwise, sleep entry is aborted.
• After a Management Port Gateway has sent and re ceived a “Sleep Ack” message on all paths, the 
MPG is permitted to clock gate or power down, etc. The Management Port Gateway must de-
assert the 
mp_wake_req  signal before entering the clock gated or power down state.
• If Sleep Nak was sent or received, the sleep entry is aborted.
• Transmitter of a “Sleep req” message can wait  for an implementation-dependent timeout to 
receive a “Sleep ack” before aborting the flow. In  multi-module implementations, the “Sleep ack” 
message must be received across all negotiated RxQ-ID paths before the timeout.
8.2.5.1.4.2 Sideband PM Exit Rules
• Management Port Gateway Transmitter that initiates the exit performs the mp_wake_req/ack  
handshake with its Physical Layer and schedules the “Wake req” message on each RxQ-ID path.
• Partner chiplet’s Physical Layer that receives th e “Wake req” message over the sideband wakes up 
its Management Port Gateway by performing the pm_clk_req/ack  handshake before 
transmitting the “Wake req” message in response.
--- Page 74 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 358
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • After the partner chiplet’s Management Port Gateway receives the “Wake Req” message, that 
Management Port Gateway must respond with a “Wake ack” message when the MPG is ready to 
receive credited packets into its Rx buffer. Moreover, the Management Port Gateway must initiate 
its own “Wake req” message to the remote Link  partner if the MPG has not already done so.
• After a “Wake ack” message is sent and received on all negotiated RxQ-IDs, the PM exit flow is 
complete and regular packet transfer can begin as soon as the last “Wake ack” message is 
transmitted.
8.2.5.1.5 Management Port Gateway Mux Arbitration
There is no prescribed arbitration mechanism for the Management Port Gateway mux on the 
Sideband. Additionally, the size of Management Po rt Gateway Flow control buffers over RDI (see 
Section 8.2.5.1.1 ) is not specified for Management Port Gateway-initiated traffic. Implementations 
should take care to ensure that th e PHY arbitration rules specified in Section 4.8  are not violated.
8.2.5.2 Mainband
8.2.5.2.1 NOP Message
The Management Port Gateway inserts NOP messages whose format is shown in Figure 8-44 , in all 
QWORD locations in a Management flit in which there is no MPM to send. NOP messages can start only at MPM boundaries within a flit.
8.2.5.2.2 Credit Return DWORD Format
See Section 3.3.3  and Section 3.3.4  for details on where this DWORD is sent in a Management Flit for 
various Flit formats.
The following rules apply:
• rxqid field in the DWORD applies to both credit returns a and b shown in Figure 8-45
• During VC initialization, on the Management Flit that carries the Management Port Gateway 
Capability message, all credit return fields must be set to 0
• If there is no credit to return in credit return slots a or b (as shown in Figure 8-45 ), a value of 0 is 
used for all associated credit return fields
• If credit returns a and b carry the same vc:resp fields, then the total credit returned for that 
rxqid:vc:resp credit type is the sum of cr_ret_a and cr_ret_bFigure 8-44. Management Flit NOP Message on Mainband
3210
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
0000_0000h
0000_0000h
Figure 8-45. Management Transport Credit Return DWORD (CRD) Format on Mainband
3210
31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
cr_ret_resp_acr_ret_
vc_acr_ret_a rsvd
cr_ret_resp_bcr_ret_
vc_bcr_ret_b
rsvd
rxqid
--- Page 75 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 359
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.5.2.3 Management Flit Formats
On the mainband, MPMs are supported only over Flit Format 3  through Format 6 .
See Section 3.3.3  and Section 3.3.4  for a D2D view of the Management Protocol mapping over Flit 
Format 3  through Format 6 . If Flit Format 1  and Format 2  are negotiated, the Management Protocol 
on that stack is disabled (if supported). Management  flits have bits [7:6] of Byte 1 set to 10b. See 
Section 8.2.2.2  for packet format of MPMs over the ma inband. Mapping of these MPMs over Flit 
Format 3  through Format 6  is as follows:
• MPM header and each QWORD of MPM payload (when applicable) can be placed only at specified 
byte locations in the Management flit, and can st art at the 1st byte in the Management flit in 
which “all bits are populated by protocol layer” (see Figure 2-1  for reference), and at subsequent 
8B increments within the flit. While incrementing, only bytes in which “all bits are populated by 
the Protocol Layer” are considered, excluding CRD byte locations and bytes marked as rsvd for 
Protocol Layer (e.g., Flit Format 3 , Bytes 40 through 43). This  is pictorially shown in Figure 8-46 .
--- Page 76 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 360
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-46. Valid MPM Header Start Locations for Various Flit Formatsa b
a. Yellow cells indicate a Valid Management Port Message (MPM) header or Payload QWORD start location. 
For the other colors, see Figure 2-1  for color mapping.
b. B = Byte, C = CRC, CRD = Credit Return DWORD, FH = Flit Header, Rsvd = Reserved. All are numbered, as appropriate, 
except for Rsvd.Format 3
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
FH B0
FH B1
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1
C1 B0
C1 B1
Format 4
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263FH B0
FH B1
… … … …
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1
C1 B0
C1 B1
Format 5
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263FH B0
FH B1
… …4B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1… …
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C1 B0
C1 B1
Format 6
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263FH B0
FH B1
… …
C0 B0
C0 B1… …
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B3
C1 B0
C1 B1
--- Page 77 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 361
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Starting at a valid MPM header byte location (as discussed above), Byte 0 of the first DWORD of the 
MPM header is sent at that byte, followed by Byte 1 of the first DWOR D of the header at starting byte 
location+1 until Byte 3 of the 2nd DWORD of the head er. This is followed by Byte 0 of the 1st DWORD 
of the MPM payload (if one exists), followed by Byte 1, Byte 2, Byte 3, etc., placed at incrementing byte locations. Non-CRD bytes, bytes that are not marked as reserved and those that are driven by 
the protocol layer are contiguously packed with MP M bytes after an MPM transmission starts and until 
the transmission ends. If an MPM cannot be fully transmitted within a Management Flit, the MPM 
continues in the subsequent Management Flit of the same stack. NOP message(s) (see 
Section 8.2.5.2.1 ) can be inserted between MPMs within a Mana gement Flit. It is also valid to send a 
Management Flit with all NOP messages in the protocol layer-driven non-CRD bytes and non-reserved 
byte locations. CRD bytes in a Management Flit al ways carry the credit return information per the 
rules stated in Section 8.2.5.2.2 .
Figure 8-47  and Figure 8-48  show example mappings of three MPMs inside Flits of Format 3  and 
Format 5 , respectively. The 1st MPM is of an MPM with Data type with a payload size of 15 QWORDs. 
The 2nd MPM is also of an MPM with Data type with a payload size of 6 QWORDs. The 3rd MPM is an MPM with a payload of size of 1 QWORD. NOPs are inserted after the end of the 3rd MPM until the end 
of the flit.
Figure 8-47. Example Mapping of MPMs and NOPs in Flit of Format 3ab
a. See Figure 2-1  for color mapping.
b. B = Byte, C = CRC, CRD = Credit Return DWORD, D = DWORD,  FH = Flit Header, MH = MPM Header, MP = MPM Payload, 
NOP = No Operation, Rsvd = Reserved.
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3…
MP D13B1
MP D13B2
MP D13B3MP D14B0
MP D14B1…
MP D30B1
MP D30B2
MP D30B3MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3…
MP D11B3
MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP…
NOP
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
FH B0
FH B1
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1
C1 B0
C1 B1
Figure 8-48. Example Mapping of MPMs and NOPs in Flit of Format 5ab
a. See Figure 2-1  for color mapping.
b. B = Byte, C = CRC, CRD = Credit Return DWORD, D = DWORD,  FH = Flit Header, MH = MPM Header, MP = MPM Payload, 
NOP = No Operation.
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263FH B0
FH B1
MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3
MP D2B0
MP D2B1…
MP D12B3
MP D13B0
MP D13B1MP D13B2
MP D13B3…
MP D27B34B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1MP D28B0
MP D28B1
MP D28B2
MP D28B3
MP D29B0
MP D29B1
MP D29B2
MP D29B3
MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3…
MP D11B3MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3
NOP
NOP
NOP
NOP…
NOP
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C1 B0
C1 B1
--- Page 78 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 362
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Figure 8-49  shows an example mapping of four MPMs insi de a Format 3 flit. The 3rd MPM rolls over 
into the 2nd flit. The 1st MPM in this example is of  an MPM with Data type with a payload size of 15 
QWORDs. The 2nd MPM is also of an MPM with Data  type with a payload size of 6 QWORDs. The 3rd 
MPM is an MPM with payload size of 6 QWORDs, wher e the 6th QWORD is sent in the 2nd Flit. The 4th 
MPM in this example is a 1-QWORD Vendor-defined  Management Port Gateway message without data. 
The remainder of the 2nd flit is all NOPs.
8.2.5.2.4 L1/L2 Link States and Management Transport
See Section 3.6  for details.
8.2.5.2.5 Link Reset/Link Disable and Management Transport
For Management Transport on the mainband that has a Management Port Gateway mux, it should be 
noted that if the associated protocol stack resets or disables the link, the Management Transport path 
is also reset/disabled. If this is not desired, it is recommended that protocol stacks in such 
configurations have a way to disable sending link reset and link disable requests on the FDI so that the Management Transport path is not affected.Figure 8-49. Example MPM Mapping to Management Flit for Format 3 
with MPM Rollover to Next Flita b
a. See Figure 2-1  for color mapping.
b. B = Byte, C = CRC, CRD = Credit Return DWORD, D = DWORD,  FH = Flit Header, MH = MPM Header, MP = MPM Payload, 
NOP = No Operation, Rsvd = Reserved.Flit 0
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3…
MP D13B1
MP D13B2
MP D13B3MP D14B0
MP D14B1…
MP D30B1
MP D30B2
MP D30B3MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3…
MP D11B3
MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3MP D0B0
MP D0B1
MP D0B2
MP D0B3
MP D1B0
MP D1B1
MP D1B2
MP D1B3
MP D2B0
MP D2B1
MP D2B2
MP D2B3
MP D3B0
MP D3B1
MP D3B2
MP D3B3…
MP D9B3
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
FH B0
FH B1
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1
C1 B0
C1 B1
Flit 1
0
1
2345678
9
10111213141516
17
18…4041424344
45
46474849505152
53
54555657585960
61
6263MP D10B0
MP D10B1
MP D10B2
MP D10B3
MP D11B0
MP D11B1
MP D11B2
MP D11B3
MH D0B0
MH D0B1
MH D0B2
MH D0B3
MH D1B0
MH D1B1
MH D1B2
MH D1B3
NOP…
NOPNOP…
NOPNOP…
NOPNOP
…
NOP
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
Rsvd
FH B0
FH B1
CRD B0
CRD B1
CRD B2
CRD B310B
Reserved
C0 B0
C0 B1
C1 B0
C1 B1
--- Page 79 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 363
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.2.6 Retimers and Management Transport
On the sideband, retimers can support management tr ansport if the retimers n eed to be part of the 
UCIe management network. This support is opti onal. If supporting mana gement transport, the 
retimers must abide by all the requirements stat ed earlier in this chapter for a generic chiplet 
implementation. When retimers are part of the management network, the retimers can be fully 
managed and be able to forward management pack ets between their UCIe interface and the retimed 
interface.
On the mainband, retimers can option ally support management transport.
8.3 UCIe Debug and Test Architecture (UDA)
8.3.1 Overview
UCIe Debug and Test (DFx) Architecture (UDA) provid es a standardized test and debug infrastructure 
for UCIe-based chiplets and SiPs to enable standard test and debug methods in a UCIe-based open 
chiplet ecosystem.
UDA is architected on top of UCIe Manageability Infr astructure and uses the architectural elements of 
that infrastructure for Chiplet-level and SiP-level testing and debug (see Section 8.1  for details of 
UCIe Manageability Architecture). UDA requires f unctional UCIe links (Sideband and/or Mainband) 
and a functional management network for test and debug purposes. Debug and bring-up of UCIe links 
and elements that comprise the UDA (see Section 8.3.1.1  through Section 8.3.1.4 ) can be performed 
by any sideband interface of choice (e.g., JTAG , GPIO, Sideband-only UCIe, etc.) of the chiplet 
vendor, and are beyond the scope of this specification.
Within each chiplet, UDA is architected in a Hub- Spoke model. In this model, DFx Management Hub 
(DMH) is the Management Element that implements the Debug and Test Protocol(s). UDA allows for 
SW/FW to discover debug capabilities present in a ch iplet, and provides for global security control/
status for test/debug functionality present in th e chiplet. Chiplet test/debug functionality is 
implemented in DFx Management Spoke (DMS). Some examples of test/debug functionality are Scan 
controller, Memory BIST, SoC fabric debug,  Core debug, trace protocol engine, etc.
In Figure 8-50 , there is one DMH with a Management Netw ork ID of 1040h and 4 DMSs connected to 
it with DMS-IDs (also referred to as Spoke-IDs) from 1 to 4. Management Network ID is used to route 
DFx and other relevant manageability packets to DMH in the manageability fabric. See 
Section 8.1.3.2  for how to interpret this ID. DMS-ID is  used to route ID-routed Test and Debug 
packets to the correct Spoke within DMH.
--- Page 80 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 364
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.1.1 DFx Management Hub (DMH)
Key points about DMH:
• DMH implements a set of registers that allow Management Firmware to:
— Enumerate test/debug capabilities within the chiplet— Globally access control to/fro m debug functionality of DMS
— Reliably report status of test/debug functionality usage within the chiplet
• DMH provides appropriate routing of Manageability packets that target various Spokes under it• There can be multiple DMHs within a chiplet• DMH can coexist with other protocol entities under the same Management Network ID
• DMH registers are accessed by the UMAP protocol (see Section 8.1.4  for details)
8.3.1.2 DFx Management Spoke (DMS)
Key points about DMS:
• Spokes provide the required test/d ebug functionality in a chiplet.
— Some examples of test/debug functionality that  can be implemented in a Spoke are MEMBIST, 
Scan controller, Core debug, SoC internal debug/ test, PCIe link debug, UCIe link debug, Trace 
protocol, etc.
— Spoke definition is left to the chiplet vendor  to decide based on the chiplet’s test/debug 
requirements.
• Spokes support the UMAP protocol and are discovered by SW as discussed in Section 8.3.5 .Figure 8-50. UDA Overview in Each Chiplet – Illustration
Chiplet
DMH
Scan 
Chain 
DMSDebug 
Protocol 
Engine 
DMSUCIe 
DMSMEMBIST 
DMS
Management
Network ID = 1040h
DMS-ID = 4 DMS-ID = 1DMS-ID = 2 DMS-ID = 3
--- Page 81 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 365
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • Spokes can optionally support Vendor-defined Test and Debug messages, and these messages are 
routed to the destination Spoke within a DMH using a DMS-ID.
• Valid DMS-IDs for Spokes are from 1 to 254. A valu e of 0h is assigned for DMH. A value of FFh is 
reserved.
• DMS-ID is unique within a given DMH.• DMH provides a pointer to the first DMS in a linked list of DMSs present within the DMH.• Each Spoke identifies itself as one of these types (see Section 8.3.5.3.2.8  for more details):
— UCIe.Physical_Layer
—U C I e . A d a p t e r— UCIe.Adapter_Physical_Layer
—V e n d o r - d e f i n e d
• Each Spoke implements a simple standard register set that helps to uniquely enumerate each 
Spoke and to allow custom SW to be loaded to interact with the Spoke.
— All Spokes minimally support DWORD Register Rd/Wr accesses. Support for sizes beyond that 
are optional.
• Vendor-defined sections of the register space can be used for a vendor to implement any Spoke 
functionality such as triggering BIST, reading internal debug registers, array dump, etc.
8.3.1.3 Supported Protocols
8.3.1.3.1 UCIe Memory Access Protocol (UMAP)
Used to access registers in DMH/DMS. See Section 8.1.4  for details of this protocol.
8.3.1.3.2 Vendor-defined Test and Debug Protocol
Used for test as discussed in Section 8.3.2  and Section 8.3.3  and for any other vendor-defined 
functionality. Format of DWORDS 2 to M of Vend or-defined Test and Debug UCIe DFx Messages (or 
Vendor-defined UDM, for short) is shown below. DWORDs 0 to 1 of these messages follow the standard format of Management Transport packet described in Section 8.1.3 , with the Management 
Protocol field set to ‘Test and Debug Protocol’. Packet Integrity Protection DWORDs (that appear after 
DWORD M) are as defined in Section 8.1 .
• These messages are routed to the correct Spoke within a DMH, using the Destination DMS-ID field 
in Byte 8 of the message.
• UCIe Vendor-ID field is the UCIe Consortium-assigned Vendor ID for the Spoke’s IP Vendor
--- Page 82 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 366
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 In Figure 8-51 , UCIe Vendor ID[15:8] is sent on Byte 0[7:0] of DWORD 3, and UCIe Vendor ID[7:0] 
is sent on Byte 1[7:0] of DWORD 3.
8.3.1.4 UDM and UCIe Memory  Access Protocol Message 
Encapsulation over UCIe
See Section 8.2  for details of how manageability messages (of which UCIe Memory Access Protocol 
and UDM are two subtypes) are negotiated, encapsul ated, and transported over the UCIe sideband 
and Main band.
8.3.1.5 UCIe Test Port Opti ons and Other Considerations
See Chapter 5.0  for different port options for testing.
8.3.1.5.1 Determinism Considerations
Testing with low-cost ATE typically requires cycle-accurate determinism. When using UCIe as a test 
port, how the determinism is achieved end-to-end is  implementation-specific and beyond the scope of 
this specification.
8.3.1.6 DFx Security
See Section 8.1.3.5  for details.Figure 8-51. Vendor-defined Test and Debug UDM
+0 +1 +2 +3
76543210765432107654321076543210
DWORD 2 Destination DMS-ID Source DMS-IDSub Protocol = FFh
(Vendor-defined)Reserved
DWORD 3 UCIe Vendor ID
•
••
Vendor-defined Payload
(Protocol-specific)
DWORD M
IMPLEMENTATION NOTE
A Spoke’s support for Vendor-defined UDM is negotiated/discovered using vendor-
defined mechanisms. The Spoke Vendor ID and Spoke Device ID can be used to 
determine a specific Spoke implementation from a specific Vendor. Vendor-defined 
registers in the Spoke can be used to negotiate/discover the Vendor-defined Payload format of Vendor-defined UDM.
--- Page 83 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 367
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.2 Sort/Pre-bond Chiplet Testing with UDA
This section covers an overview of chiplet-level te sting at Sort/Pre-bond using UCIe as the test port. 
Support for this testing scheme is optional. Figure 8-52  captures this scenario.
• UCIe sideband and/or mainband can be used for th is testing if they have a bump pitch of 100 um 
to 130 um.
• For sending/receiving scan test patterns, Vendor-defined UDMs (see Figure 8-51 ) are used over 
UCIe Sideband or mainband. These messages can target the appropriate Spoke (using the DMS-
ID field) in the design that implements the scan functionality.
• For general-purpose testing/debugging using regi ster reads and writes, UCIe UMAP messages can 
be used (e.g., for triggering in-build self-test me chanisms in a chiplet, a UCIe register read/write 
mechanism can be used to trigger a test and then read the test results).
In Figure 8-52 , a UCIe Management port embedded in the UCIe controller provides access from the 
tester to the chiplet’s manageability/test/debug  fabric. The access control mechanism for ATE to 
acquire access to the UCIe Management network is implementation-specific.
While the ATE interfaces covered above are UCIe si deband and mainband, other interfaces such as 
JTAG, GPIO, and PCIe are also possible. Vendors can implement a bridge from these interfaces, with appropriate security control, to the UCIe Management network.Figure 8-52. UCIe-based Chiple t Testing/Debugging at Sort
at Standard Bump Pitch
100 to 130 umChiplet
DMH
Scan 
Chain 
DMSPCIe 
DMSSoC 
SpokeUDM over 
UCIe Sideband/Mainband
UCIe-SB/MBMEMBIST
DMS
ATEUCIe
Management
NetworkUCIe
UCIe Ctlr
--- Page 84 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 368
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.3 SiP-level Chiplet Testing with UDA
This section covers chiplet-level testing in a package that uses UCIe. Figure 8-53  provides an 
overview of this. Support for this testing scheme is optional.
• There is at least one test/debug port pinned out in the package for SiP-level testing/debugging.
— The port could be any of JTAG, GPIO, PCIe, USB, SMBus, and/or I2(3)C.
• More than one package port can be used for speeding up package-level test/debug.
• Vendors can implement bridges, with appropriate security control, from these interfaces to the 
UCIe Management network.
— On the UCIe Management network, bridged pa ckets follow the UCIe Management Transport 
Packet format.
• Accesses from package ports are forwarded over UCIe  sideband or mainband if they target other 
chiplets. See Section 8.1.3.2  for details of how the target chiplet of a Manageability packet is 
determined.
• See Section 8.2.1  for details of how UDMs are encapsulat ed on the UCIe sideband and mainband.
• Similar to sort testing,
— For sending/receiving scan test patterns, Vend or-defined UCIe DFx Messages (UDM) are used 
over UCIe. These messages can target the approp riate Spoke in the design that implements 
the scan control functionality.
— For general-purpose testing/debugging using register reads and writes, UMAP messages can 
be used, as defined in Section 8.1.4 .Figure 8-53. UCIe-based Testing of Chiplets in an SiP
Chiplet 0 Chiplet 1 Chiplet 2
Chiplet 3 Chiplet 4 Chiplet 5
             PackageJTAG/GPIO/PCIe/..
UDM over UCIe Sideband or MainbandDMHDMH DMH
DMH DMHDMHATE
--- Page 85 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 369
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.4 System Debug with UDA
For system-level debug, various interfaces can be used for Controllability/Observability. In 
Figure 8-54 , an I3C interface running a debug protocol is the connection between the debugger and 
the DFx hooks on each chiplet. A x16 PCIe interface is used to send debug data to a logic analyzer. 
PCIe debug VDM packets can be used to carry debug in formation on this interface. Similarly, a remote 
debugger could access debug data over USB using an appropriate protocol. Note that per the UCIe 
Management Network Architecture requirements, a management bridge is  required at the USB 
interface in Chiplet 5, or I3C interface in Ch iplet 0, or x16 PCIe interface in Chiplet 2.
8.3.5 DMH/DMS Registers
8.3.5.1 DMH/DMS Register Addr ess Space and Access Mechanism
DMH and DMS registers are located within the memory space of the Management Element in which 
they reside. UMAP is used to access these registers. DMH and DMSs all share the same memory 
address space of the associated management element,  and they each occupy specific address ranges 
within the address space. DMH and DMSs are discove red using a linked list wi th pointers in DMH and 
DMS register space, respectively. In Figure 8-55 , DMH has two Spokes connected to it. The pointer in 
DMH points to the first DMS which then points to the next DMS. The pointer in the second DMS indicates the end of Spokes in the DMH with  a value of all 0s in its Next pointer.
All spec-defined registers in DMH and DMS are accessed in DWORD size only.Figure 8-54. UCIe-based System Testing/Debug
Chiplet 0 Chiplet 1 Chiplet 2
Chiplet 3 Chiplet 4 Chiplet 5
PackageDebug over I3CLogic 
Analyzer
USB
Remote 
Debug 
ConsoleDebug over USBDebugger
DMHDMH DMH
DMH DMHDMH
I3CPCIe
--- Page 86 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 370
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 The DMH base address in Figure 8-55  is from the Capability Directory of Management Element that 
hosts a DMH (see Section 8.1.3.6.1  for details).
8.3.5.2 DMH Registers
DMH registers are defined in the DMH Capability shown in Figure 8-56 . DBG_STS falls within the 
“Chiplet Status” Asset Class. All other spec-defined  registers fall within the “Chiplet Configuration” 
asset class.Figure 8-55. DMH/DMS Address Mapping
DMS
DMS_Next
DMH Base AddressDMH
DMS_StartDMS
DMS_Next = 0hDMSFFFFFFFF_FFFFFFFFh
--- Page 87 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 371
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.2.1 Ver (Offset 00h)
8.3.5.2.2 Capability ID (Offset 02h)Figure 8-56. DMH Capability Register Map
31 29 16 15 8 7 0
Rsvd Capability ID Reserved Ver 0B
DBG_CAP
DBG_CTL
DBG_STS
DMH_Length_Low
DMH_Length_High
DMH_Ext_Cap_Low
DMH_Ext_Cap_High
DMS_Start_Low
DMS_Start_High
Reserved40B
•
•
•
Vendor-defined128B
•
•
•
N
Table 8-32. Version
Bit Attribute Description
7:0 ROVersion
Set to 00h.
Table 8-33. Capability ID, Ver
Bit Attribute Description
13:0 ROCapability ID
Set to 2h to indicate DMH.
--- Page 88 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 372
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.2.3 DBG_CAP — Debug Capabilities (Offset 04h)
8.3.5.2.4 DBG_CTL — Debug Control (Offset 08h)
8.3.5.2.5 DBG_STS — Debug Status (Offset Ah)
8.3.5.2.6 DMH_Length_Low — DMH Register Space Length Low (Offset 10h)
8.3.5.2.7 DMH_Length_High — DMH Re gister Space Length High (Offset 14h)Table 8-34. Debug Capability
Bit Attribute Description
3:0 ROVersion
Set to 0h.
31:4 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-35. Debug Control
Bit Attribute Description
0R W LDisable Accesses to/from DMS
1: Disables UMAP and Test/Debug Vendor-defined UDM accesses to/from 
DMSs connected to the DMH from/to the UCIe Management network.
0: Enables accesses to DMSs connected to the DMH.Default is 1b. This bit is locked for writes  if bit 1 in this register is set to 1.
1R OLock ‘Disable Accesses to DMS’
Default value is 0. After SW writes 1 to this bit, this bit cannot be modified 
further until the next Management Reset.
31:2 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-36. Debug Status
Bit Attribute Description
0R ODMS Accessed
At least one DMS was accessed from the management network since the last 
Management Reset. This bit is cleared on each Management Reset.
31:1 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-37. DMH_Length_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the length of the DMH re gister space in multiples of 4K. Bits 
[11:0] in this register are reserved to ensure 4k multiples of length.
A value of 1000h for {DMH_Length_High :: DMH_Length_Low} indicates a 
length of 4K. A value 2000h indicates a length of 8K, etc.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-38. DMH_Length_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the length of the DM H register space in multiples of 4K.
A value of 1000h for {DMH_Length_High :: DMH_Length_Low} indicates a 
length of 4K. A value 2000h indicates a length of 8K, etc.
--- Page 89 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 373
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.2.8 DMH_Ext_Cap_Low — DMH Extended Capability Pointer Low (Offset 18h)
8.3.5.2.9 DMH_Ext_Cap_High — DMH Extended Capability Pointer High (Offset 1Ch)
8.3.5.2.10 DMS_Start_Low — DMS Starting Address Low (Offset 20h)
8.3.5.2.11 DMS_Start_High — DMS Starting Address High (Offset 24h)
8.3.5.3 DMS Registers
Architected DMS registers are detailed in this sect ion. The UCIe Consortium-assigned Vendor ID at 
Offset 00h of the DMS register map uniquely identifi es each UCIe Vendor. A value of 0h for the Vendor 
ID indicates that the Spoke is an “empty” Spoke an d the register map for such a Spoke is shown in 
Figure 8-57 . For Spokes with a nonzero Vendor ID (also referred to as nonempty Spokes), a ‘Spoke 
Type’ value is defined that indicates whether the Spoke is associated with a UCIe link or if the Spoke is vendor-defined (see Section 8.3.5.3.2.8  for ‘Spoke Type’ definition):
• If a Spoke is associated with a UCIe link, its ‘Spoke Type’ value is either 0, 1, or 2 (see 
Figure 8-59  for the register map)
• If the Spoke is a vendor-defined Spoke, the ‘Spoke  type’ value is assigned by the vendor within 
the range of 128 to 255 and some of the ar chitected registers are not applicable (see Figure 8-60  
for the register map)
Figure 8-58  shows registers that are common for all Spoke types. For security, DMS registers are 
classified as follows. See Section 8.1.3.5.1  for the details of each class.
• Spoke STS register falls within the ‘Chiplet Status’ asset class.Table 8-39. DMH Extended Capability Pointer Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:2 ROLower 30 bits of the DWORD-aligned offs et from the DMH starting address, 
where any extended capabilities start, when present in the DMH. Set to all 0s 
for this revision of the spec.
1:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-40. DMH Extended Capability Pointer High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the DWORD-aligned offs et from the DMH starting address, 
where any extended capabilities start, when present in the DMH. Set to all 0s 
for this revision of the spec.
Table 8-41. DMS_Starting_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the first DMS connected 
to the DMH.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-42. DMS_Starting_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the first DMS connected 
to the DMH.
--- Page 90 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 374
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 • When applicable, UCIe Link Status in UCIe Link DVSEC, UCIe link-related status/log registers in 
the Adapter_Physical_Layer register block (e.g ., Correctable/Uncorrectable Error Status), 
Compliance and Test-related status registers in the Compliance_Test register block (e.g., Physical 
Layer Compliance 1 and 2 Status registers), fall within the ‘SiP Status’ asset class.
— All standard UCIe link registers other than the ones noted above fall within the ‘SiP 
Configuration’ asset class.
• All other spec-defined registers in DMS fall wi thin the ‘Chiplet Configuration’ asset class.
8.3.5.3.1 “Empty” Spoke Registers
Figure 8-57  shows the register map for “empty” Spokes. Designs can use this Spoke register 
structure to indicate that the Spoke does not have any Spoke functionality.
8.3.5.3.1.1 DMS_Next_Low — DMS Next Low Address (Offset 04h)
8.3.5.3.1.2 DMS_Next_High — DMS Next High Address (Offset 08h)
8.3.5.3.2 Common DMS Register s for All Non-empty Spokes
Figure 8-58  shows the registers that are present in all non-empty Spokes. Locations marked as 
“Type-Specific” in Figure 8-58  carry registers that are specific to  the ‘Spoke Type’ and are discussed in 
Section 8.3.5.3.3  and Section 8.3.5.3.4 .Figure 8-57. Empty Spoke Register Map
31 16 15 0
Reserved Spoke VID = 0ha
a. See Section 8.3.5.3.2.1 .0B
DMS_Next_Low 4B
DMS_Next_High 8B
Table 8-43. DMS_Next_Low Address
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the next DMS connected to the DMH. If this is the last Spoke in  the Spoke chain, this field needs to be 
set to all 0s.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-44. DMS_Next_High Address
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the next DMS connected 
to the DMH. If this is the last Spoke in  the Spoke chain, this field needs to be 
set to all 0s.
Figure 8-58. Common DMS Registers for All Non- empty Spokes Register Map (Sheet 1 of 2)
31 24 23 16 15 8 7 0
Spoke DevID Spoke VID 0B
DMS_Next_Low
DMS_Next_High
--- Page 91 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 375
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.2.1 Spoke VID — Spoke Vendor ID (Offset 00h)
8.3.5.3.2.2 Spoke DevID — Spoke Device ID (Offset 02h)Type-Specific Reserved Spoke RID
Associated DMS-ID2 Associated DMS-ID1 Associated DMS-ID0 DMS-ID
Spoke CAP
Spoke CTL
Spoke STS
Spoke CTL
DMS_Length_Low
DMS_Length_High
DMS_Ext_Cap_Low
DMS_Ext_Cap_High
Type-Specific48B
•
•
•
Reserved80B
•
•
•
Type-Specific128B
•
•
•
N
Table 8-45. Spoke Vendor ID
Bit Attribute Description
15:0 ROSpoke Vendor ID
Uniquely identifies a Spoke Vendor to Software. This ID is assigned by UCIe 
Consortium.
Table 8-46. Spoke Device ID
Bit Attribute Description
15:0 ROSpoke Device ID
Uniquely identifies a device from the Ve ndor identified by the Vendor ID. This 
ID is assigned by the vendor.Figure 8-58. Common DMS Registers for All Non- empty Spokes Register Map (Sheet 2 of 2)
31 24 23 16 15 8 7 0
--- Page 92 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 376
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.2.3 DMS_Next_Low — DMS Next Low Address (Offset 04h)
8.3.5.3.2.4 DMS_Next_High — DMS Next High Address (Offset 08h)
8.3.5.3.2.5 Spoke RID — Spoke Revision ID (Offset 0Ch)Table 8-47. DMS_Next_Low Address
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the next DMS connected 
to the DMH. If this is the last Spoke in  the Spoke chain, this field needs to be 
set to all 0s.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-48. DMS_Next_High Address
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned starting address (in the UMAP address space 
of the management element that hosts the DMH) of the next DMS connected to the DMH. If this is the last Spoke in  the Spoke chain, this field needs to be 
set to all 0s.
Table 8-49. Spoke Revision ID
Bit Attribute Description
7:0 ROSpoke Revision ID
Uniquely identifies a Spoke Vendor to Software. This ID is assigned by UCIe 
Consortium.
--- Page 93 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 377
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.2.6 DMS-ID — Spoke DMS-ID (Offset 10h)
8.3.5.3.2.7 Associated DMS-ID[0, 1, 2] (Offsets 11h, 12h, 13h)
8.3.5.3.2.8 Spoke CAP — Spoke Capability (Offset 14h)
8.3.5.3.2.9 Spoke CTL — Spoke Control (Offset 18h)Table 8-50. DMS-ID
Bit Attribute Description
7:0 RODFx Management Spoke-ID
Statically assigned Spoke-ID value for this Spoke. Spoke-ID is used for ID-
routed UDMs.
Table 8-51. Associated DMS-ID[0, 1, 2]
Bit Attribute Description
7:0 ROAssociated DMS-ID
Spoke-ID associated with other Spokes that constitute the same UCIe link. For 
example, if there are separate Spokes for some or all of the IPs that constitute 
a full UCIe stack – Adapter, Physical Layer, Protocol Stack0, Protocol Stack1 – 
these registers within each Spoke provide the DMS-IDs of the related partner Spokes. If there are no related Spokes, this register reads as FFh. If there are 
multiple protocol stacks, the lower value DMS-ID belongs to Stack 0 and 
higher value belongs to Stack 1.
These registers are used by SW to identify all the Spokes that constitute a 
single UCIe link.
Table 8-52. Spoke Capability
Bit Attribute Description
3:0 ROVersion
Set to 0h for this version of the capability.
7:4 RsvdP Reserved
15:8 ROSpoke Type
0: UCIe.Adapter. Indicates a Spoke associated with UCIe Adapter.1: UCIe.Physical_Layer. Indicates a Spoke associated with UCIe Physical 
Layer.
2: UCIe.Adapter_Physical_Layer. Indicates a common Spoke across both UCIe 
Adapter and Physical Layer.
3 to 127: Reserved.128 to 255: Vendor-defined.
31:16 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-53. Spoke Control
Bit Attribute Description
0R WEnable Test and Debug Vendor -defined UDM as Initiator
0: Spoke cannot initiate Vendor-defined UDM.
1: Spoke can initiate Vendor-defined UDM.
Spokes that do not implement Vendor-d efined UDM as initiator can hardwire 
this bit to 0.
31:1 RsvdP Reserved
--- Page 94 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 378
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.2.10 Spoke STS — Spoke Status (Offset 1Ch)
8.3.5.3.2.11 DMS_Length_Low — DMS Register Space Length Low (Offset 20h)
8.3.5.3.2.12 DMS_Length_High — DMS Register Space Length High (Offset 24h)
8.3.5.3.2.13 DMS_Ext_Cap_Low — DMS Extend ed Capability Pointer Low (Offset 28h)
8.3.5.3.2.14 DMS_Ext_Cap_High — DMS Extended Capability Pointer High (Offset 2Ch)Table 8-54. Spoke Status
Bit Attribute Description
0R OSpoke Used
Indicates that the Spoke has been accessed at least once since the last 
Management Reset. Access implies sending or receiving UMAP packets or 
UDMs.
Bit is cleared on the next Management Reset.
31:1 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-55. DMS Register Space Length Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of length of the DMS register space from Offset 0h of DMS, in 
multiples of 4K. Value of 1000h for {DMS_Length_High :: DMS_Length_Low} 
indicates 4K length, 2000h indicates 8K leng th, etc. Bits [11:0] in this register 
are reserved to ensure 4k multiples of length.
UCIe Spoke Types 0, 1, and 2 implemente d to this revision of the spec must 
have a value in this register such that the DMS register space is not larger 
than 4 MB.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-56. DMS Register Space Length High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of length of the DMS regist er space from Offset 0h of DMS, in 
multiples of 4K. Value of 1000h for {DMS_Length_High :: DMS_Length_Low} 
indicates 4K length, 2000h indicates 8K length, etc.
UCIe Spoke Types 0, 1, and 2 implemente d to this revision of the spec must 
set this value to all 0s.
Table 8-57. DMS Extended Capability Pointer Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:2 ROLower 30 bits of the DWORD-aligned offs et from the DMS starting address, 
where any extended capabilities start, when present in the DMS. Value of all 
0s indicates that there are no extended capabilities (default).
1:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-58. DMS Extended Capability Pointer High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the DWORD-aligned offset from the DMS starting address, 
where any extended capabilities start, when present in the DMS. Value of all 
0s indicates that there are no extended capabilities (default).
--- Page 95 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 379
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.3 DMS Registers of UCIe Sp oke Types (‘Spoke Type’ = 0 through 2)
Figure 8-59  shows the DMS register map for the UCIe Spoke types. Figure 8-58  and Section 8.3.5.3.2  
detail registers that are common to all Spoke type s. This section details the remaining registers, 
which are unique to the UCIe Spoke types.
Figure 8-59. DMS Register Map for UCIe Spoke Types
31 24 23 16 15 8 7 0
Spoke DevID Spoke VID 0B
DMS_Next_Low
DMS_Next_High
Port ID Reserved Spoke RID
Associated DMS-ID2 Associated DMS-ID1 Associated DMS-ID0 DMS-ID
Spoke CAP
Spoke CTL
Spoke STS
Spoke CTL
DMS_Length_Low
DMS_Length_High
DMS_Ext_Cap_Low
DMS_Ext_Cap_High
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low 48B
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_High
Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low
Compliance_Test_Ptr_High
Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_Low
Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_High
Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low
Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_High
Reserved80B
•
••
UCIe Link DVSEC128B
•
••Vendor-defined
UCIe Link Register Blocks
Vendor-defined
N
--- Page 96 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 380
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.3.1 Port ID — Management Port ID (Offset 1Eh)
8.3.5.3.3.2 Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low — Adapter/Physical Layer Register Block 
Pointer Low (Offset 30h)
8.3.5.3.3.3 Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_High  — Adapter/PHY Register Block Pointer 
High (Offset 34h)Table 8-59. Port ID
Bit Attribute Description
15:0 ROPort ID
For Spoke Types 0, 1, and 2, this register indicates the Port ID of the UCIe link 
that is associated with the Spoke, if a Port ID exists for the link. A UCIe link 
has a Port ID assigned to it if the link is a Management Port. If the link does 
not have an assigned Port ID, this register reads as FFFFh.
Table 8-60. Adapter_Phy sical_Layer_Ptr_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the UCIe Adapter/Physical Layer register block that is associated with the UCIe link.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by 
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr _Low/High pointers in a UCIe.Adapter Spoke are 
limited to the 4k block(s) that contai n the Adapter registers and the register 
block header itself, and the 4k block(s) that contain Physical Layer registers are treated as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by 
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low/High pointers in a UCIe.Physical_Layer 
Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that contain the PHY registers and the 
register block header itself, and Adap ter registers are treated as reserved.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-61. Adapter_Phy sical_Layer_Ptr_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the UCIe Adapter/PHY regi ster block that is associated with the UCIe link.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by 
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr _Low/High pointers in a UCIe.Adapter Spoke are 
limited to the 4k block(s) that contai n the Adapter registers and the register 
block header itself, and the 4k block(s) that contain PHY registers are treated 
as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by 
Adapter_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low/High pointers in a UCIe.Physical_Layer 
Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that contain the PHY registers and the register block header itself, and Adap ter registers are treated as reserved.
--- Page 97 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 381
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.3.4 Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low — Complia nce and Test Register Block Pointer Low 
(Offset 38h)
8.3.5.3.3.5 Compliance_Test_Ptr_High — Compliance and Test Register Block Pointer 
High (Offset 3Ch)Table 8-62. Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the UCIe Test/Compliance register block that is associated with the UCIe 
link.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Adapter Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that contain 
the Adapter registers and the register block header itself, and the 4k block(s) that contain PHY registers are treated as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Physical_Layer Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that 
contain the PHY registers and the register block header itself, and the Adapter 
registers are treated as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Adapter_Physical_Layer Spoke have no access restrictions.
Set to all 0s if this register block is not implemented.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-63. Compliance_Test_Ptr_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the UCIe Test/Compliance register block that is associated with the UCIe link.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Adapter Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that contain 
the Adapter registers and the register block header itself, and the 4k block(s) 
that contain PHY registers are treated as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Physical_Layer Spoke are limited to the 4k block(s) that contain the PHY registers and the register block header itself, and the Adapter 
registers are treated as reserved.
Accesses to registers that are referenced by Compliance_Test_Ptr_Low/High 
pointers in a UCIe.Adapter_Physical_Layer Spoke have no access restrictions.
Set to all 0s if this register block is not implemented.
--- Page 98 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 382
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.3.6 Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_Low — Implementation-specific Adapter Register 
Block Pointer Low (Offset 40h)
8.3.5.3.3.7 Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_High — Im plementation-specific Adapter Register 
Block Pointer High (Offset 44h)
8.3.5.3.3.8 Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_ Low — Implementation-specific Physical 
Layer Register Block Low (Offset 48h)
8.3.5.3.3.9 Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Hi gh — Implementation-specific Physical 
Layer Register Block High (Offset 4Ch)Table 8-64. Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the Adapter Implementatio n-specific register block.
In a UCIe.Physical_Layer Spoke type, this pointer must be set to all 0s. Also 
set to all 0s if the register block is not implemented in the design.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-65. Impl_Spec_Adapter_Ptr_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the Adapter Implementatio n-specific register block.
In a UCIe.Physical_Layer Spoke type, this pointer must be set to all 0s. Also 
set to all 0s if the register block is not implemented in the design.
Table 8-66. Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_Low
Bit Attribute Description
31:12 ROLower 20 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the Physical Layer Implement ation-specific register block.
In a UCIe.Adapter Spoke type, this pointer must be set to all 0s. Also set to all 
0s if the register block is not implemented in the design.
11:0 RsvdP Reserved
Table 8-67. Impl_Spec_Physical_Layer_Ptr_High
Bit Attribute Description
31:0 ROUpper 32 bits of the 4K-aligned offset (from the starting address of the Spoke) 
of the Physical Layer Implement ation-specific register block.
In a UCIe.Adapter Spoke type, this pointer must be set to all 0s. Also set to all 
0s if the register block is not implemented in the design.
--- Page 99 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 383
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.3.10 UCIe Link DVSEC — UCIe Link DVSEC (Offset 80h)
UCIe Link DVSEC (see Section 9.5.1 ) is mirrored starting at this lo cation. Accesses to the DVSEC by 
the UCIe.Physical_Layer Spoke type are treated as reserved.
8.3.5.3.3.11 UCIe Link Register Blocks (Offset Is Implementation-dependent)
UCIe link memory register blocks — Adapter_Physical_Layer, Compliance_Test (if supported), 
Impl_Spec_Adapter (if supported), and Impl_Spec_ Physical_Layer (if supported) — are mirrored at 
vendor-defined offsets in the Spoke’s memory space.
8.3.5.3.4 DMS Registers of Vendor-defined Spoke Types 
(‘Spoke Type’ = 128 through 255)
Figure 8-60  shows the DMS register map for the Vendor-defined Spoke types. Figure 8-58  and 
Section 8.3.5.3.2  detail registers that are common to all Spoke types. Section 8.3.5.3.3.1  details the 
Port ID register. Vendor-defined Spokes do not have any additional architected registers.IMPLEMENTATION NOTE
Spokes can restrict access to UCIe link registers based on access control 
considerations (see Section 8.1.3.5  for details).
Figure 8-60. DMS Register Map for Vendor-defined Spoke Types
31 24 23 16 15 8 7 0
Spoke DevID Spoke VID 0B
DMS_Next_Low
DMS_Next_High
Port ID Reserved Spoke RID
Associated DMS-ID2 Associated DMS-ID1 Associated DMS-ID0 DMS-ID
Spoke CAP
Spoke CTL
Spoke STS
Spoke CTL
DMS_Length_Low
DMS_Length_High
DMS_Ext_Cap_Low
DMS_Ext_Cap_High
Reserved48B
•
••
Vendor-defined128B
•
••
N
--- Page 100 ---
System Architecture
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 384
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 8.3.5.3.5 DMS Register Implementation in UCIe Adapter and in UCIe Physical Layer
§ §IMPLEMENTATION NOTE
For Spoke Type 0, the DMS registers are implemented in the Adapter. For Spoke Type 
1, the DMS registers are implemented in the Physical Layer. For Spoke Type 2, all but 
the register blocks associated with the Phys ical Layer are implemented in the Adapter. 
These registers are accessed over the FDI config bus ( lp_cfg*/pl_cfg* ) using 
DMS Register read/write opcodes (see Table 7-1, “Opcode Encodings Mapped to 
Packet Types” ). SoC logic that interfaces with on-die management fabric (which is 
implementation-specific) is required to perform the conversion from Management Transport protocol UMAP packets to FDI config bus packets. The FDI config bus is 
defined in Section 10.2 .