
--- Page 1 ---
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 25
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Terminology
Table 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 1 of 8)
Term Definition
Ack Acknowledge
ACPI Advanced Configuration and Power Interface
Addr Address
Advanced PackageThis packaging technology is used for performance optimized applications and short reach 
interconnects.
AFE Analog Front End
ALMP ARB/MUX Link Management Packet (as defined in CXL Specification )
APMW Advanced Package Module Width
ARB/MUX Arbiter/Multiplexer (as defined in CXL Specification )
AssetAny data or mechanism used to access data that  should be protected from illicit access, use, 
availability, disclosure, alteration, destruction, or theft.
ATE Automated Test Equipment
B2B Back-to-BackBAR Base Address Register
BDF Bus Device Function
BE Byte EnableBEI BAR Equivalent Indicator
BER Bit Error Ratio
BFM Bus Functional Modelbubble Gap in data transfer and/or signal transitions. Measured in number of clock cycles.
bundleTx group or Rx group for UCIe-3D interconnects that contains data, clock, power, and ground. 
A 3D Module consists of a Tx bundle and an Rx bundle.
C4 bump Controller Collapse Chip Connect bump
CA Completer Abort
CDM Charged Device Model
chipletIntegrated circuit die that contains a well-defined subset of functionality that is designed to be 
combined with other ch iplets in a package.
clear
clearedIf clear or reset is used and no value is pr ovided for a bit, it is interpreted as 0b.
CLM Current Lane Map
CMLS Common Maximum Link Speed
CoWoS Chip on Wafer on SubstrateCPU Central Processing Unit
CRC Cyclic Redundancy Check
CXL Compute eXpress LinkCXL 68B Flit Mode This term is used to reference 68B  Flit Mode related Protocol features defined in CXL Specification .
CXL 256B Flit Mode This term is used to reference 256B  Flit Mode related Protoc ol features defined in CXL Specification .
D2C Data-to-ClockD2D Die-to-Die
DCC Duty Cycle Correction
--- Page 2 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 26
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 DDR Double Data Rate Memory
DevID Device IDDFx Design for Debug or Design for Test
DLLP Data Link Layer Packet (as defined in PCIe Base Specification )
DLP In Flit modes, the Data Link Layer Payload within a flit (as defined in PCIe Base Specification ).
DMHDFx Management Hub. DFx entity that provides enumeration/global control/status of DFx 
capabilities in a chiplet.
DMSDFx Management Spoke. DFx entity that implements  a specific test/debug functionality within a 
DMH.
DMS-IDStatic design time ID assigned to a DMS for ID-routed messages within a DMH. Interchangeably 
used with the term Spoke-ID.
Domain Reset 
(domain reset)Used to refer to a hardware mechanism that sets or returns all UCIe registers and state machines 
associated with a given UCIe Link to their initialization values as specified in this document. It is 
required for both sides of the Link to have an ov erlapping time window such that they are both in 
domain reset concurrently.
DP Downstream Port
DSP Downstream Switch Port (as defined in CXL Specification )
DVFS Dynamic Voltage Frequency Scaling
DVSEC Designated Vendor-Specific Extended Capability (as defined in PCIe Base Specification )
DWORDDouble Word. Four bytes. When used as an addre ssable quantity, a Double Word is four bytes of 
data that are aligned on a four-byte boundary (i.e.,  the least significant two bits of the address are 
00b).
E2E End to endEM Eye Margin
EMIB Embedded Multi-die Interconnect Bridge
EML Eye Margin LeftEMR Eye Margin Right
EMV Eye Margin Valid
Encapsulated MTP
eMTPEncapsulated Management Transport Packet. The resulting packet after Encapsulation .
EncapsulationProcess of splitting an MTP or Vendor defined messages (exchanged between Management Port 
Gateways on both ends of a link) into smaller pieces to meet any required payload length 
restrictions or for any other reasons like credit availability, adding a 2-DWORD header to each piece and if required, adding a 1-DWORD data padding at the end of an MTP to transmit the MTP over 
sideband or mainband UCIe link. In the case of an  MTP, the resulting packet after Encapsulation is 
called the Encapsulated MTP.
Endpoint
EPAs defined in PCIe Base Specification .
eRCD Exclusive Restricted CXL Device (as defined in CXL Specification )
eRCH Exclusive Restricted CXL Host (as defined in CXL Specification )
ESD Electro-Static DischargeF2B Face-to-Back
F2F Face-to-Face
FDI Flit-Aware Die-to-Die InterfaceFEC Forward Error Correction
FEXT Far-End CrossTalk
FH Flit HeaderTable 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 2 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 3 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 27
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 FIFO First In, First Out
FIR Finite Impulse ResponseFIT Failure In Time. 1 FIT = 1 device failure in 10
9 hours.
Flit Link Layer unit of transfer (as defined in CXL Specification ).
Flit_Marker
FMFlit Marker (as defined in PCIe Base Specification )
FW Firmware
FW-CLK Forwarded Clock over the UCIe Link for mainband data Lanes
HMLS Highest Maximum Link Speed of next-lower configuration.
Hub See DMH.
HW Hardware
IL Insertion Loss
I/O Input/Output
IPGeneric term used to refer to architecture bl ocks that are defined within the specification 
(e.g., D2D adapter, PHY, etc.).
IPA Ignore Prohibited AccessISI Inter-Symbol Interference
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LaneA pair of signals mapped to physical bumps, on e for Transmission, and one for Reception. A xN 
UCIe Link is composed of N Lanes.
LCLK Refers to the clock at which the Logical Ph ysical Layer, Adapter and RDI/FDI are operating.
LCRC Link CRCLFSR Linear Feedback Shift Register
Link
UCIe LinkA Link or UCIe Link refers to the set of two UC Ie components and their interconnecting Lanes which 
forms a dual-simplex communications  path between the two components.
LSM Adapter Link State Machine 
LTSM Link Training State Machine
LTSSM Link Training and Status State Machine (as defined in PCIe Base Specification )
LSB Least Significant BitMainband
MBConnection that constitutes the main data path of UCIe. Consists of a forwarded clock, a data valid 
pin, and N Lanes of data per module.
Management BridgeType of Management Entity that bridges a Management Network within an SiP to another network 
that may be internal or external to the SiP.
Management DirectorManagement Element that is responsible for discovering, configuring, and coordinating the overall 
management of the SiP and acts as the manageability Root of Trust (RoT).
Management DomainOne or more chiplets in an SiP that are interconnected by a Management Network and support UCIe 
Manageability.
Management Element Type of Management Entity that  can perform one or more management functions.
Management EntityAddressable entity on the Management Network that can send and/or receive UCIe Management 
Transport packets. A Management Element, a Mana gement Port, and a Management Bridge are all 
a type of Management Entity.
Management Flit A Flit that carries a Management Port Message (MPM) .
Management Link 
Encapsulation MechanismMechanism that defines how UCIe Management Tran sport packets are transferred across a point-to-
point management link.Table 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 3 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 4 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 28
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Management NetworkNetwork within and between chiplets that is capa ble of transporting UCIe Management Transport 
packets.
Management PortManagement Entity that facilitates management communication between chiplets using a chiplet-
to-chiplet management link.
Management Port Gateway
(MPG)Entity that provides the bridging functionality when transporting an MTP from/to a local SoC 
management fabric (which is an SoC-specific implementation) to/from a UCIe link.
Management Port Message 
(MPM)Sideband or mainband message that relates to encapsulation.
Management Protocol Protocol carried on top of the UCIe Management Transport.Management ResetType of reset that causes all UCIe manageability and manageability structures in a chiplet to be 
reset to their default state.
MCLS Number of active Modules Current Link Speed
MMIO Memory mapped Input/OutputMMPL Multi-module PHY Logic
ModuleUCIe main data path on the physical bumps is organized as a group of Lanes called a Module. For 
Standard Package, 16 Lanes constitute a single Module. For Advanced Package, 64 Lanes constitute a single Module.
MSB Most Significant Bit
MTP Management Transport PacketNak Negatively acknowledge
NEXT Near-End CrossTalk
NOP No OperationNVMe Non-Volatile Memory express
One-Time Programmable Any data storage mechanism that is  capable of being programmed only once (e.g., fuse).
P2P Peer to peerPacket A block of data transmitted across a network.
PCIe (PCI Express) Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (defined in PCIe Base Specification )
PCIe Flit Mode This term is used to reference Flit Mode related Protocol features defined in PCIe Base Specification .
PCIe non-Flit ModeThis term is used to reference non-Flit Mo de related Protocol features defined in PCIe Base 
Specification .
PDOS Permanent Denial of Service
PDS Pause of Data Stream
PHY Physical Layer (PHY and Physical Layer are used interchangeable throughout the Specification)PI Phase Interpolator
PLL Phase-Locked Loop
PMPower Management states, used to refer to behavior and/or rules related to Power Management 
states (covers both L1 and L2).
PMO Sideband Performant Mode Operation
QWORDQuad Word. Eight bytes. When used as an addressa ble quantity, a Quad Word is eight bytes of data 
that are aligned on an eight-byte boundary (i.e., th e least significant three bits of the address are 
000b).
RAC Read Access ControlRCD Restricted CXL Device (as defined in CXL Specification )
RCH Restricted CXL Host (as defined in CXL Specification )
RCiEP Root Complex Integrated EndpointTable 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 4 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 5 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 29
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 RCKN_P
RXCKN
rxcknPhysical Lane for Clock Receiver Phase-2
RCKP_P
RXCKPrxckpPhysical Lane for Clock Receiver Phase-1
RCRB Root Complex Register Block
RDI Raw Die-to-Die Interface
RD_P[N]
RD_PN
RXDATA[N]rxdataNNth Physical Lane for Data Receiver
remote Link partnerThis term is used throughout this specification to denote the logic associated with the far side of the 
UCIe Link; to denote actions or messages sent or received by the Link partner of a UCIe die.
Replay
RetryRetry and Replay are used interchangeably to refer to the Link level reliability mechanisms.
ReservedThe contents, states, or information are not defined at this time. Using any Reserved area (for 
example, packet header bit-fields, configuration register bits) is not permitted. Reserved register fields must be read only and must return 0 (all  0s for multi-bit fields) when read. For packets 
transmitted and received over the UCIe Link (mai nband or sideband), the Reserved bits must be 
cleared to 0b by the sender and ignored by the receiver. Reserved encodings for register and packet fields must not be used. Any implementation dependence on a Reserved field value or encoding will 
result in an implementation that is not UCIe-comp liant. The functionality of such an implementation 
cannot be guaranteed in this or any future revision of this specification.
For registers, UCIe uses the “RsvdP” or “RsvdZ” attributes for reserved fields, as well as Rsvd, and 
these follow the same definition as PCIe Base Specification for hardware as well as software.
reset If reset or clear is used and no value is provided for a bit, it is interpreted as 0b.
RID Revision ID
RL Register LocatorRoot Complex As defined in PCIe Base Specification .
Root Port
RPAs defined in PCIe Base Specification .
RoT Root of Trust
RRDCK_P
RXCKRDrxckRDPhysical Lane for redundant Clock/Track Receiver
RRD_P[N]
RRD_PN
RXDATARD[N]
rxdataRD[N]Nth Physical Lane for redundant Data Receiver
RRDVLD_P
RXVLDRDrxvldRDPhysical Lane for redundant Valid Receiver
RTRK_P
RXTRK
rxtrkPhysical Lane for Track Receiver
RVLD_P
RXVLD
rxvldPhysical Lane for Valid Receiver
Rx ReceiverTable 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 5 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 6 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 30
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 RXCKSB
rxcksbPhysical Lane for sideband Clock Receiver
RXCKSBRD
rxcksbRDPhysical Lane for redundant sideband Clock Receiver
RXDATASB
rxdatasbPhysical Lane for sideband Data Receiver
RXDATASBRD
rxdatasbRDPhysical Lane for redundant sideband Data Receiver
SBFE Sideband Feature Extensions
{<SBMSG>}Sideband message requests or responses are referred to by their names enclosed in curly brackets. 
See Chapter 7.0  for the mapping of sideband message names to relevant encodings. An asterisk in 
the <SBMSG> name is used to denote a group of me ssages with the same prefix or suffix in their 
name.
SC Successful Completion
SD Security Director. Management Element that may configure security parameters.
SegmentationProcess of taking a large MTP, splitting it into smaller “segments” and sending those segments on 
multiple sideband links  or mainband stacks.
SERDES Serializer/Deserializer
serial packetA 64-bit serial packet is defined on the sideband I/O interface to the remote chiplet as shown in 
Figure 4-8 .
set If set is used and no valu e is provided for a bit, it is interpreted as 1b.
SFES Sideband Feature Extensions Supported
Sideband
SBConnection used for parameter exchanges, register accesses for debug/compliance and 
coordination with remote partner for Link training and management. Consists of a forwarded clock 
pin and a data pin in each direction. The clock is  fixed at 800 MHz regardless of the main data path 
speed. The sideband logi c for the UCIe Physical Layer must be on auxiliary power and an “always 
on” domain. Each module has its own set of sideband pins.
SiP System in Package. Collection of chiplets packaged as a unit.
SM State Machine
SO Sideband-only
SoC System on a Chip
Spoke See DMS.
Standard PackageThis packaging technology is used for low cost and long reach interconnects using traces on organic 
package/substrate
Strobe Used interchangeably with clock for sideband clock
SW SoftwareTC Traffic Class
TCKN_P
TXCKN
txcknPhysical Lane for Clock Transmitter Phase-2
TCKP_P
TXCKPtxckpPhysical Lane for Clock Transmitter Phase-1
TCM Tightly coupled mode
TDPI Test, Debug, Pattern, and InfrastructureTable 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 6 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 7 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 31
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 TD_P[N]
TD_PN
TXDATA[N]txdataNNth Physical Lane for Data Transmitter
TLP Transaction Layer Packet (as defined in PCIe Base Specification )
TRD_P[N]
TRD_PNTXDATARD[N]
txdataRD[N]Nth Physical Lane for redundant Data Transmitter
TRDCK_P
TXCKRD
txckRDPhysical Lane for redundant Clock/Track Transmitter
TRDVLD_P
TXVLDRDtxvldRDPhysical Lane for redundant Valid Transmitter
Trx Transceiver
TSV Through-Silicon Via
TTRK_P
TXTRK
txtrkPhysical Lane for Track Transmitter
TVLD_P
TXVLDtxvldPhysical Lane for Valid Transmitter
Tx Transmitter
TXCKSB
txcksbPhysical Lane for sideband Clock Transmitter
TXCKSBRD
txcksbRDPhysical Lane for redundant sideband Clock Transmitter
TXDATASB
txdatasbPhysical Lane for sideband Data Transmitter
TXDATASBRD
txdatasbRDPhysical Lane for redundant sideband Data Transmitter
TXEQ Transmitter Equalization
UCIe Universal Chiplet Interconnect expressUCIe-3D Universal Chiplet Interconnect express for 3D packaging
UCIe-A Used to denote x64 Advanced Package module.
UCIe-A x32Used to denote x32 Advanced Package module. See Chapter 5.0  for UCIe-A x32 Advanced Package 
bump matrices, and interoperability between x32 to x32 and x32 to x64 module configurations.
UCIe-S Used to denote x16 Standard Package module.
UCIe chiplet A chiplet  that complies with the UCIe specification.
UCIe DFx Architecture
UDADFx architecture specified for chiple ts and SiPs that implement UCIe.
UCIe DFx Message
UDMGeneric term for all UCIe Management Transport pa ckets with Protocol ID set to ‘Test and Debug 
Protocols’.
UCIe dieThis term is used throughout this specification to denote the logic associated with the UCIe Link on 
any given chiplet with a UCIe Link connection. It is used as a common noun to denote actions or 
messages sent or received by an implementation of UCIe.Table 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 7 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 8 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 32
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 UCIe Flit ModeOperating Mode in which CRC bytes are inserted and checked by the D2D Adapter. If applicable, 
Retry is also performed by the D2D Adapter.
UCIe LinkA UCIe connection between two chiplets. These chiplets are Link partners in the context of UCIe 
since they communicate with each other using a common UCIe Link.
UCIe Mainband 
Management PortChiplet port that implements th e Management Link Encapsulation Mechanism and can transfer UCIe 
Management Transport packets across a point-to-point UCIe mainband link.
UCIe Management 
Transport ProtocolProtocol used to transfer UCIe Management Transport packets between management entities.
UCIe Raw Format Operating format in which all the by tes of a Flit are populated by the Protocol Layer.
UCIe Sideband 
Management PortChiplet port that implements th e Management Link Encapsulation Mechanism and can transfer UCIe 
Management Transport packets across a point-to-point UCIe sideband link.
UCLS UCIe Link Structure
UEDT UCIe Early Discovery Table
UHM UCIe Link Health MonitorUIE Uncorrectable Internal Error
UiRB UCIe Register Block
UiSRB UCIe Structure Register BlockUMAP UCIe Memory Access Protocol
Unit Interval
UIGiven a data stream of a repeating pattern of alte rnating 1 and 0 values, the Unit Interval is the 
value measured by averaging the time interval be tween voltage transitions, over a time interval 
sufficiently long to make all intentional frequency modulation of the source clock negligible.
UP Upstream Port
UR Unsupported RequestUSP Upstream Switch Port
VH Virtual Hierarchy (as defined in CXL Specification )
vLSM Virtual Link State MachineVref Reference voltage for receivers
VTF Voltage Transfer Function
WAC Write Access Control
zero Numerical value of 0 in a bit, field, or register, of appropriate width for that bit, field, or register.Table 1. Terms and Definitions (Sheet 8 of 8)
Term Definition
--- Page 9 ---
Terminology
UCIe Specification Revision 2.0, Version 1.0 33
August 6, 2024 Property of Universal Chiplet In terconnect Express (UCIe) © 2022–2024 Table 2. Unit of Measure Symbols
Symbol Unit of Measure
bb i t
Bb y t edB decibel
fF femtofarad
GB/s gigabytes per secondGHz gigahertz
GT/s gigatransfers per second
KB/s kilobytes per secondMB/s megabytes per second
MHz megahertz
mm millimeterms millisecond
MT/s megatransfers per second
mUI milli-Unit intervalmV millivolt
mVpp millivolt peak-to-peak
um micrometerus microsecond
ns nanosecond
pJ picojoulepk peak
ppm parts per million
ps picosecondss e c o n d
TB/s terabytes per second
Vv o l t